this file is just for you to understand what brought about the idea and its mainly for context




Whille creating the deadmanhand, we had a password that was hashed by something called kessak right?

Yes — keccak256. That's the standard hashing function on Ethereum/EVM chains (it's what web3.utils.soliditySha3 and viem's keccak256 use under the hood), and it fits your "chain as witness" pattern: store only the hash on-chain, never the plaintext password, so the chain can later verify a reveal without ever having custody of the secret itself.

That was the same approach used for DevicePassport's provenance data — hash-only on-chain storage, nothing sensitive exposed. If you want, I can help sanity-check the exact hashing/salting flow for the Legacy Vault dead man's switch.

Why cant we hash imei numbers serial numbers?

You can hash them, but hashing alone doesn't give you privacy — because IMEIs and serial numbers are low-entropy, guessable values, hashing them is basically reversible.

Why it fails:

A hash is only "one-way" in practice if the input space is huge and random. Passwords (if long/random) or big secrets work because there are too many possibilities to brute-force.
IMEIs are 15 digits, serials are often shorter alphanumeric strings — that's a small, structured search space. An attacker (or anyone with a GPU) can just precompute keccak256(imei) for every valid IMEI range or known serial format and build a lookup table (a "rainbow table") in minutes to hours.
So keccak256("356938035643809") looks random on-chain, but it's trivially reversible once someone tries the ~10^15 possible IMEIs — and in practice manufacturer prefixes narrow that a lot further.
What actually works instead:

Salt + hash: keccak256(imei + secret_salt). If the salt is long, random, and kept off-chain, brute-forcing becomes infeasible again — this is the standard fix.
HMAC (e.g. HMAC-SHA256 with a secret key) instead of a plain hash — cryptographically designed for this exact problem.
Commit-reveal: store the hash on-chain now, reveal the plaintext IMEI + salt later when needed for verification — matches your "chain as witness" philosophy well, since you're proving you knew it at time T without exposing it prematurely.
For DevicePassport specifically, if you were hashing raw IMEIs with no salt, that's worth revisiting — anyone could dictionary-attack the on-chain hashes back to real device IDs.

Can a hashed phrase or digit be seen by an observer onchain?

Yes — anything written on-chain is public, including hashes. Blockchains aren't private by default; every transaction and every stored value in a contract's state is visible to anyone who runs a node or looks at a block explorer (like scan.bohr.life or scan.botchain.ai).

So a hash like 0x7a3f... sitting in a contract's storage is fully visible. What that visibility gets an observer depends on the input:

High-entropy secret (random 256-bit salt, long random password): the hash is safe to expose. Reversing it means guessing among an astronomically large space — computationally infeasible.
Low-entropy or guessable input (IMEI, serial number, a common word, a short PIN): the hash is not safe to expose as-is. An observer can precompute hashes for the whole plausible input space and match them against what's on-chain — exactly the rainbow-table problem from before.
A useful mental model: hashing doesn't hide how much someone could guess, it just makes each individual guess cost one hash computation. If there are only a few million plausible inputs, that's nothing for modern hardware — regardless of how "random-looking" the resulting hash is.

So for anything low-entropy (IMEI, serials, PINs, common passwords), you need salt + secrecy of the salt, not just hashing, before it's safe to put on-chain.


Dead Man's Hand (DMH) A decentralized crypto inheritance / emergency-access protocol on BOT Chain. An owner registers assets they already hold (no assets move or get locked up front — a per-token approve/setApprovalForAll from the owner's own EOA is all that's granted). If the owner goes inactive pa

pasted

Read this:

Got it — read through the whole DMH spec. A few things stand out, especially given what we just covered on hashing:

The salting is done right. secretHash = keccak256(secretPlaintext, ownerAddress, vaultId) — salting by both owner and vaultId means the same plaintext secret across two vaults produces different hashes, which kills cross-vault rainbow-table reuse. That's the correct pattern.

But there's a real leak, and the doc admits it: attemptUnlock(vaultId, secretPlaintext) submits the plaintext secret as calldata to claim. That means the moment anyone claims (or fails a claim attempt), the secret is permanently public in transaction history — visible on scan.bohr.life/scan.botchain.ai forever, even to failed guesses. So salting protects the hash sitting in storage pre-claim, but not the secret itself once someone attempts to use it. The doc correctly notes this needs a redesigned claim protocol (e.g. a commit-reveal or a signature-based proof-of-knowledge scheme instead of submitting plaintext) — not a frontend fix.

Status honestly reported: contract's on testnet only (0x6bAc4F39e81955FD1Be3C890bd158aF0D08701af, chain 968), frontend not deployed, no mobile wallet in-app-browser test done yet. Mainnet DMH address is null by design so it fails closed rather than guessing.

Nice design details: skip-and-continue on token sweep (one bad transferFrom doesn't revert the whole claim), self-expiring cooldown (no permanent lockout), fee-recipient forwarding with nothing ever stuck in the contract.

Want me to think through what a fix for the plaintext-leak-on-claim issue would look like (e.g. commit-reveal or an ECDSA signature check instead of revealing the raw secret)?

Wait whats the leak i dont still understand

The leak is specifically about the claim step, not the setup step.

Setup (safe): When you create a vault, the frontend hashes your secret locally and only sends secretHash on-chain. The plaintext secret never touches the chain. Good.

Claim (leaky): To actually unlock a vault, the contract function is:

attemptUnlock(vaultId, secretPlaintext)
Look at that second argument — secretPlaintext. To prove you know the secret, the claimant has to send the actual plaintext secret itself as part of the transaction, not just a hash of it.

Here's why that's a problem: every transaction on a blockchain — including its input data (calldata) — is permanently public and stored forever, visible to anyone via a block explorer. So the instant someone calls attemptUnlock with the real secret, that secret is now sitting in plain text in the public transaction history. Forever. Even if:

The guess was wrong (failed attempts still submit the plaintext guess — so an attacker could even "leak" candidate secrets by trying them)
You wanted to keep the secret reusable across other things
There's no undo. Once it's in calldata, it's out.

Why salting doesn't save you here: Salting protects the hash stored in the contract from being reverse-engineered via rainbow table before anyone claims. But at claim time, you're not sending a hash anymore — you're sending the raw secret so the contract can hash it itself and compare. The salt protects storage, not the reveal transaction.

The fix direction: instead of "send me the plaintext, I'll hash and check it," you'd want something like:

A zk-proof of knowledge of the secret (never reveals it)
Or an ECDSA signature scheme where the claimant proves they hold a key derived from the secret, without exposing the secret itself
Or a commit-reveal with off-chain relay, though that reintroduces trust assumptions
Does that clear up the distinction between "hash is safe on-chain" vs. "plaintext becomes public the moment you use it to prove you know it"?

Explain like to a highschool keed i dont still get

Okay, think of it like a locker at school.

Setting up the locker (safe): You pick a combination, like "1234." You don't write "1234" on a sticky note on the locker. Instead you write down a secret code that represents your combination (like a scrambled version only you can unscramble) — you're protecting the real answer.

Opening the locker (the problem): Here's the thing — this particular locker doesn't have a keypad. To open it, you have to shout your combination out loud in the hallway so the locker can hear it and check if it's right.

The first time anyone shouts "1234!" — whether it's you opening it, or a random kid trying to guess and getting it wrong — everyone in the hallway just heard "1234." And this hallway has security cameras that record forever and the footage is public. Anyone can rewind it and see exactly what was shouted.

So even though the combination was scrambled and hidden before anyone tried to open the locker, the moment someone actually tries to open it, they have to say it out loud — and now it's not a secret anymore. Forever. Recorded. Public.

That's the leak: the blockchain is like that hallway with permanent public cameras. attemptUnlock(secretPlaintext) means "shout your actual secret so the contract can check it" — and blockchains record every transaction forever for anyone to see.

The fix would be something like: instead of shouting the combination, you do a secret handshake that proves you know the combination without ever saying it out loud. Make sense?

What if a user passes a wrong phrse or password, isnt the secret syill safe

Good question — let's separate two things: the guess itself, vs the real secret.

If someone shouts the wrong combination: only that specific wrong guess becomes public. If a kid yells "5678!" and it's wrong, everyone now knows "5678" isn't your combination — but they still don't know your real one. So no, a wrong guess doesn't leak your actual secret.

But here's the catch — two ways it still gets dangerous:

The moment someone shouts the correct one, it's exposed. That includes you — if you (or a beneficiary) ever legitimately claim the vault, you have to shout the real combination to open it, and now it's public forever. So the secret is only "safe" as long as nobody has successfully claimed yet. The very act of a legitimate, correct claim burns the secret.
Repeated wrong guesses can narrow things down. If an attacker keeps shouting guesses — "1234," "0000," "1111"... — each failed shout still gets logged permanently on-chain. That doesn't reveal your real secret directly, but it reveals the attacker's strategy, and if you ever reused a similar password elsewhere, or if the failed guesses are all variations of something guessable (birthdays, common phrases), that's a real privacy/security signal leaking out too, even without a correct guess.
So: wrong guesses alone don't burn the real secret — but the design guarantees the real secret gets burned the first time anyone (including a legitimate beneficiary) successfully claims. That's the deeper issue: even honest, intended use of the vault exposes the secret publicly at exactly the moment it matters most.

Cant we implement a strategy where the millisecond the contract verifies the hssh it closes itself to the address that correctly called, meaning only it has the ability to withdraw or a way to hide the phrase itself from  observers, or the transfer of ownership on click?

That's a really sharp instinct — "lock it down instantly" — but here's the piece that doesn't quite work: the leak doesn't happen after the contract checks the secret. It happens the instant you submit the transaction, before the contract even runs.

Why "closing it fast" can't help:

Back to the locker analogy — imagine you shout your combination, and the instant the locker hears the right one, it slams shut so no one else can use it. Great, right?

But the problem isn't what happens after you shout. The problem is that the whole hallway already heard you shout it — cameras rolling, permanently recorded — the millisecond the sound left your mouth. It doesn't matter how fast the locker reacts afterward. The information already left your control before the "checking" step even started.

On a blockchain it's the same timing problem, just technical:

You submit a transaction containing the plaintext secret.
That transaction gets broadcast to thousands of computers (nodes) across the network before it's even confirmed — this is called the "mempool," a public waiting room every pending transaction sits in.
Only after it's broadcast and seen by everyone does a node/validator actually run your contract's code and check the hash.
So by the time your contract could "instantly lock itself to the caller," the secret's already been seen by anyone watching the mempool — including bots that specifically watch for exactly this pattern (they're called "MEV bots," and sniping revealed secrets is a known attack).

What actually needs to change: You can't out-run the leak with faster contract logic, because the leak happens at the network layer, before your logic runs. The fix has to make sure the plaintext itself never has to be transmitted at all — that's why the real solutions are things like:

Signatures (prove you hold a private key tied to the secret, without ever sending the secret)
ZK-proofs (mathematically prove "I know a value that hashes to X" without revealing the value)
Want me to sketch how a signature-based version of DMH's claim step would actually work?

Explain both solutions

Sure — both avoid ever saying the secret out loud. Here's how each one pulls that off.

1. Signature-based proof

Instead of your secret being a phrase you have to speak, it becomes a private key — like a special pen that only you own, and its ink leaves a signature nobody else can forge.

When you set up the vault, instead of hashing a phrase, you generate a key pair (a private key + a public key, math-linked to each other). You register the public key on-chain — that's fine to show everyone, like your locker number is fine to show everyone.
To claim, you don't send the private key at all. Instead, you use it to sign a message (like "I want to claim vault #42"). Signing produces a signature — a proof that could only have been made by someone holding that private key — but the private key itself never leaves your device and never gets broadcast.
The contract checks: "does this signature match the public key on file?" If yes, claim succeeds. If no, it fails. Either way, your private key was never shouted into the hallway.
Think of it like: instead of yelling your locker combo, you show a badge that could only have been printed by someone who owns the real key — the badge proves it without revealing the key itself.

Downside: this means the "secret" is now a cryptographic key, not a memorable phrase. Harder for a human to remember/write down/pass to a beneficiary casually — you'd need a proper key file or seed phrase, not "our childhood dog's name."

2. Zero-knowledge proof (ZK-proof)

This one's wilder: it lets you mathematically prove "I know a value that hashes to X" without revealing the value at all — not the phrase, not a signature-worthy key, nothing.

Imagine a magic photocopier that can prove "I definitely know the combination to open this locker" — and it can prove that fact is true — without you ever saying the combination, writing it down, or showing your face. It just hands over a tiny math certificate that says "trust me, verified" and anyone can check the certificate is legit without learning anything else.

You still pick a memorable secret phrase, just like now.
To claim, instead of sending the phrase, your wallet computes a ZK-proof: a small blob of math that convinces the contract "yes, I know a secret that hashes to what's stored on-chain" — without the proof containing the secret itself.
The contract verifies the proof (this is cheap and fast on most EVM chains using something like Groth16 or a similar proving system) and releases the assets if it checks out.
This keeps your original UX — a memorable phrase — while closing the leak. The tradeoff is it's more complex to build: you need a proving circuit, a trusted setup or transparent proving system, and it adds real engineering weight to what's currently a simple keccak256 comparison.

Rough comparison for DMH specifically:

Signature-based	ZK-proof
Keeps "memorable phrase" UX	❌ needs a real key	✅ yes
Engineering complexity	Low-medium (standard ECDSA, well-trodden)	High (circuits, proving system)
Best fit for hackathon timeline	✅ much more feasible	Probably overkill for the timeline
Given your "honest constrained MVP over overbuilt" philosophy, the signature approach is the more realistic fix to actually ship — the ZK route is the more elegant long-term answer but is a lot more to build correctly under hackathon time pressure.

But the signature defests the entire purpose because we want something memorable.

Expantiate more on the zkproofs, is it achievable? Or impossible

Fair pushback — a signature does kill the "memorable phrase" idea, since a real key isn't something you can just remember or tell your kid. So let's dig into ZK properly, because it's the one option that keeps both.

Short answer: achievable, not impossible — but there's one specific gotcha you need to know about.

How it actually works (plain terms)

Picture a math machine that takes your secret phrase as input, and instead of shouting the phrase, it spits out a little "proof ticket." That ticket says "I definitely know a phrase that matches the stored answer" — and it's mathematically impossible to fake a valid ticket without actually knowing the phrase. But the ticket itself contains zero information about what the phrase actually was. You hand the ticket to the contract, the contract checks the ticket's math checks out, and releases the funds. Nobody watching — not the mempool, not the block explorer, not future historians — ever sees the phrase.

That's genuinely real, working technology. It's not theoretical.

The gotcha: keccak256 is bad news for ZK

Here's the catch that matters for your project specifically: ZK-proof systems work by turning the "check" into a circuit — basically a math equation the proof has to satisfy. Some hash functions turn into tiny, cheap circuits (like Poseidon, or Pedersen hash — these were literally designed for this). Keccak256 turns into a huge, expensive circuit — it's not built for this use case, and proving "I know a keccak256 preimage" is way slower and heavier than it needs to be.

So if you go the ZK route, you'd need to switch your hashing function from keccak256 to Poseidon for the secret-hash part specifically (you could keep keccak256 elsewhere in the contract, this is just for the secret check). That's a real, but not huge, refactor.

What building it actually looks like

Write a small circuit (using a tool called Circom) that says: "prove you know a secret such that Poseidon(secret, ownerAddress, vaultId) == storedHash" — this is almost a textbook first ZK circuit, very well-trodden territory.
Compile it, which generates a proving key (used client-side to build proofs) and a verifying key.
Auto-generate a Solidity verifier contract from that (a tool called snarkjs does this for you — you don't hand-write the verification math).
In the frontend, when a claimant enters their phrase, JavaScript (via snarkjs in-browser, WASM-based) builds the proof locally — the phrase never leaves their device.
Submit just the proof (a few hundred bytes) to the contract's attemptUnlock. Contract runs the auto-generated verifier, gets a yes/no, proceeds.
Is it hackathon-feasible?

Realistically: yes, but it's meaningfully more work than your current keccak256 comparison — probably a solid chunk of build time, not a 10-minute swap. A few practical notes:

Proof generation in-browser typically takes ~1–3 seconds for a circuit this simple — totally fine UX-wise.
The proving key file can be a few MB — needs to be hosted as a static asset your frontend fetches, not a big deal but worth planning for.
I can actually compile the circuit and generate the Solidity verifier for you right now in this session (I have a sandboxed environment with bash access) if you want a real, working starting point instead of just theory.
Given your "honest constrained MVP" philosophy — this is a legitimate, shippable feature, not vaporware, but it is the harder of the two paths. Want me to actually build the Poseidon circuit + verifier contract as a proof of concept?

Do you understand the maths and is it something u can do?

Honest answer: partially, with an important caveat.

What I do understand well:

The conceptual math — why zero-knowledge works, what a circuit is, how commitment schemes and hash preimages work, why Poseidon is circuit-friendly and keccak256 isn't, how Groth16/PLONK proving systems fit together at a high level (elliptic curve pairings, polynomial commitments, trusted setup vs. transparent setup tradeoffs).
I can write correct, standard Circom code for well-known patterns — a Poseidon-preimage circuit like this is a textbook example, not novel research. I could write it, compile it, generate the verifier, and get something running in this session.
What I should be straight with you about:

I do not derive elliptic curve pairing math from first principles or independently verify the deep cryptographic soundness proofs behind Groth16 — I'm working from well-established, audited patterns and libraries (circom, snarkjs), not inventing new cryptography.
ZK circuits have a nasty failure mode: under-constrained circuits. If a circuit is written slightly wrong, it can look like it works in testing but actually allow fake proofs to pass — this is one of the most common real-world ZK bugs, and it's subtle enough that experienced teams have shipped it by accident. For a textbook Poseidon-preimage check, the risk is low because it's such a standard pattern, but I want to be honest: I can't give you audit-grade certainty on my own circuit, the same way I wouldn't claim audit-grade certainty on any security-critical crypto code without real review.
This is exactly the kind of thing your "don't overclaim what AI verification can do" instinct should apply to here, on myself.
What I'd actually recommend: I can build you a real, working proof-of-concept — compiled circuit, generated verifier contract, working end-to-end demo on testnet. That's genuinely useful for a hackathon (functioning, demonstrable, honest about being a POC). But if this were ever going to mainnet with real locked assets, I'd flag it needs a second pair of eyes from someone who's specifically done ZK circuit security review before — not because I think it's wrong, but because "I think it's right" isn't the same bar as "this has been checked" when real money is on the line.

Want me to go ahead and build the working POC?

In the former model to gain access to the phrase, you would have to inout your ohrase in the frontend which in turn broadcasts the phrase. I have 2 questions, is it possible to make sure that only the first attempt goes through, i know crypto transactions can be sofned depending on who osys the most has fee, so is it possible to make sure that tx sre executed first come for this specific contract. And also, instead of sending the phrase to the co tract for audit, can you tell the contract that you know the phrase, and the contrsct beeodies the prroof or solved the math on your wallet/ side and transfers ownership immediately.instead of gking out to the pizza shop to buy pizza while everyone is seeing, you tell the pizzaguy to come to your house because you have the money st home. This way wverybody cwn call but only the wallet with the phrase entirely and the sctovatir side and not onchain

Two different questions here — let's take them one at a time.

Question 1: Can we guarantee "first attempt wins" regardless of gas fees?

Not by default — you're right that blockchains order transactions by gas fee (or by validator/sequencer rules), not by "who tried first." But there are a few ways to get closer to what you want:

Bind the proof to the caller's wallet address. This doesn't fix ordering, but it fixes a sneakier problem: right now, if you broadcast a valid claim transaction, someone watching the mempool could copy your exact transaction and resubmit it with higher gas — stealing your correct answer and beating you to it, even though you solved it first. If the proof/signature is mathematically tied to your specific wallet address (built into what's being proven), nobody else can reuse it even if they see it. So this solves "someone steals my valid attempt," even though it doesn't solve "two different people who both know the secret race each other."
True first-come-first-served ordering is a property of the chain itself (its sequencer), not something a smart contract can enforce on its own. Some chains offer "fair ordering" or first-in-first-out sequencing as a base-layer feature — that's a question of whether BOT Chain's block production works that way, not something DMH's contract can bolt on. Worth checking BOT Chain's docs on this specifically if it matters to your design.
Question 2 — your pizza analogy:

You just re-derived ZK-proofs by accident, and it's a good analogy — but there's one correction worth making.

"Solve the math at home, only send proof of payment, don't walk to the shop" — that's exactly what a ZK-proof is: the actual computation happens locally in your wallet/browser, and only a small proof leaves your device, never the secret.

But here's the part that has to stay on-chain: the contract still has to check the proof. It can't just take your word for it ("trust me, I solved it at home") — that would mean anyone could lie and claim the vault. The proof still gets submitted in a transaction and verified by the contract's code, publicly, on-chain. What's different from today's design is what's contained in that transaction — today it's the naked secret (leak), with ZK it's a proof that reveals nothing about the secret even though it's sitting in public forever.

So to be precise about your analogy: it's not "the pizza guy never comes to your house publicly" — it's "the pizza guy comes to your house, and everyone can see a delivery happened and that it was legitimate, but nobody can see what was actually inside the box."

Want me to start building the actual POC — Poseidon circuit, verifier contract, and check what BOT Chain's docs say about transaction ordering/sequencer behavior?

Can you first check botchain.ai for compatibility?


Searched the web
Searched the web
That search returned generic EVM/precompile content, not anything from BOT Chain's actual docs. Let me fetch the real docs site directly.


Searched the web
Searched the web
Search isn't surfacing the actual docs site. Let me try fetching it directly.


Searched the web
Searched the web
Found the official site. Let me fetch it to find the actual dev docs link.


Fetched a page
Fetched a page
Now let me check the actual dev docs for precompile support (needed for a Groth16 verifier) and any info on transaction ordering.


Searched the web
Searched the web
I got the marketing site content but the actual technical docs (dev-docs.botchain.ai) is a JavaScript-rendered Docusaurus site — my fetch only pulled the page metadata, not the actual doc content, so I can't quote specifics from their precompile/EVM spec pages directly. Here's what I can say with confidence, and where the gaps are:

Confirmed (from BOT Chain's own site):

BOT Chain is EVM-compatible, built for Solidity, and explicitly lists Hardhat, Foundry, ethers.js, web3.js, MetaMask as supported tooling — standard Ethereum dev stack.
It uses a hybrid consensus (SPoA / PoSA-style — staking + BFT), 0.75s block time, ~0.9s finality.
No mention of it being a stripped-down or non-standard EVM fork (unlike some app-chains that remove precompiles to save gas).
What this means for the ZK plan:
A Groth16 verifier contract relies on the bn128/alt_bn128 pairing precompiles (addresses 0x06, 0x07, 0x08) that have been part of the standard EVM since the Byzantium fork. Since BOT Chain advertises itself as a straightforward EVM-compatible chain (not a modified/pruned EVM), the strong likelihood is these are present and unmodified — this is true for essentially every "EVM-compatible L1" fork (Polygon, BSC, Avalanche C-Chain, etc.) I'm aware of.

What I could not verify directly:

I couldn't confirm this from BOT Chain's actual technical spec page (the JS rendering blocked my fetch tool from seeing the content) — this is an inference from "EVM-compatible" branding + industry norm, not a doc citation.
Nothing on your specific transaction-ordering/sequencer-fairness question came up — BOT Chain doesn't appear to advertise "fair ordering" as a differentiator, which suggests standard fee-priority mempool behavior, but I don't have a direct confirmation either way.
My honest recommendation before you build: the cheap, certain way to confirm the precompile question — deploy a 5-line test contract on testnet (chain 968) that calls the bn128 pairing precompile directly and see if it reverts or returns correctly. That's a 2-minute check that removes all doubt, versus me inferring from marketing copy. Want me to write that test contract for you to deploy?

How does the contract hashes in the first place in your device before it goes onchain or onchain

Good question — it's actually different for setup vs. claim, and that difference is exactly where the leak lives.

During vault setup (hashing happens on your device):

From the DMH doc: "the secret is hashed locally and only the salted hash is submitted."

You type your secret phrase into the frontend.
JavaScript running in your browser (via ethers.js, using keccak256) computes keccak256(secretPlaintext, ownerAddress, vaultId) — this math happens locally on your device, using your CPU, before anything is sent anywhere.
Only the output — the hash — gets put into the transaction and broadcast. Your phrase never leaves your device at this stage.
Think of it like: you do the math homework at your desk, and you only turn in the final answer, not your scratch paper.

During a claim (hashing happens on-chain, which is the problem):

The contract function is attemptUnlock(vaultId, secretPlaintext). Notice: it takes the plaintext, not a hash.

You type your phrase into the frontend.
The frontend does not hash it this time — it just packages your raw phrase directly into a transaction and broadcasts it.
Once that transaction is picked up by the network, the smart contract itself runs keccak256() on the plaintext you sent, and compares that result to the stored hash.
So the hashing at claim time happens inside the contract, on-chain — which means your plaintext phrase had to travel across the public network to get there first. That's the moment it becomes permanently visible.

Why this asymmetry exists: a smart contract can't compute a hash of something it never received — it has no way to check "does this match" without being given the actual input to check against. So as long as the check happens on-chain, the raw input has to arrive on-chain too. That's the fundamental limitation ZK-proofs solve — they let you prove "this input satisfies the equation" without ever handing the input over.

How de we dehash on the frontend

Careful here — you actually can't "dehash" (reverse a hash back into the original phrase), and that's not a limitation, it's the entire point of a one-way hash function.

Why hashing can't be undone:

Think of keccak256 like a blender. You put a strawberry, banana, and yogurt in, blend it, and get a smoothie. Given the smoothie, you can't "un-blend" it back into a whole strawberry — the process throws away information on purpose. Hashing works the same way: it's mathematically designed so there's no formula, no shortcut, no matter how much compute you throw at it, that takes the output and reconstructs the input directly.

The only way to match a hash to an input is what we discussed earlier: guess the input, hash the guess, see if it matches. That's not "dehashing" — that's brute-forcing, and it only works if there's a small enough number of guesses to try (which is exactly the IMEI/serial number problem from before).

So what does the frontend actually do?

If you mean "how do we hash" (not dehash) on the frontend for the setup step — that's what happens today:

javascript
import { keccak256, solidityPacked } from "ethers";

const secretHash = keccak256(
  solidityPacked(
    ["string", "address", "uint256"],
    [secretPlaintext, ownerAddress, vaultId]
  )
);
// only secretHash gets sent on-chain
This runs entirely in the browser, using the phrase the user typed, and only the resulting hash leaves the device.

If you're asking because of the claim flow specifically: there's no "dehashing" step needed there either — the claimant already knows their own phrase (they typed it in), so nothing needs to be reversed. The problem was never "we need to reverse a hash" — it's that today's contract makes the claimant broadcast their known phrase in plaintext to prove they know it, instead of proving it without revealing it (which is what ZK-proofs or signatures solve).

Is there a specific step in the flow where you were picturing a "dehash" happening? That'll help me point at exactly where the confusion is.

The same phrase will give u same hash

Yes, exactly — hashing is deterministic: same input always produces the exact same output, every single time, on any device, forever. That's not a bug, it's a requirement — if keccak256("mysecret") gave a different result each time, the contract could never verify anything.

Why this matters for your vault:

Determinism is why the check works at all: you hash your phrase once at setup, store that hash on-chain, then later re-type the same phrase, hash it again, and it matches — that's the whole mechanism. If hashing weren't deterministic, there'd be no way to ever confirm "yes, this is the same secret."

But this is also exactly why weak secrets are dangerous:

Because it's deterministic, anyone can pre-compute hashes for a list of guesses completely offline, without touching your contract at all:

keccak256("password123", ownerAddr, vaultId) → 0xabc...
keccak256("myDog2020", ownerAddr, vaultId)   → 0xdef...
keccak256("1234", ownerAddr, vaultId)        → 0x789...
Then they just scan the blockchain for a stored hash that matches one they've already computed. If it matches, they've found your phrase — without ever "attempting" a claim, without paying a fee, without triggering any cooldown, completely silently, completely offline.

This is where your salt (ownerAddress + vaultId) genuinely helps: it means an attacker can't precompute one giant universal table for "common passwords" and reuse it against every vault ever created — they'd have to redo the precomputation per vault (since the salt is different each time), which makes bulk/mass attacks much harder. But it does not protect one specific person: if an attacker specifically targets your one vault, they know your address and vaultId (both public), so they can still brute-force offline against just your vault if your phrase is short, common, or guessable.

The practical takeaway: the salt neutralizes "attack everyone at once with one big table," but the actual strength of any individual vault still comes down to how unguessable the phrase itself is — a real diceware-style passphrase, not a memorable word or short PIN.

So how about we hash the phrase for the second time while claiming and let the vonteact do some sort of cancelling out or recognise that the hssh is same

That's a really natural idea — but it doesn't actually solve the problem, it just moves it. Let me show you why.

What you're proposing:

Setup: store H = keccak256(phrase, owner, vaultId) on-chain (already done).
Claim: frontend computes H' = keccak256(phrase, owner, vaultId) locally, sends H' (not the phrase) to the contract.
Contract checks: does H' == H? If yes, unlock.
Sounds reasonable — no plaintext ever gets sent! But here's the catch:

The hash itself becomes the new "password" — and it's exposed the same way.

Once you submit H' in a transaction, it's now sitting in public transaction history forever, same as before. It doesn't matter that H' "looks random" — the problem was never that the plaintext looked like a secret, it's that whatever you submit to prove you know the secret is now permanently copyable by anyone watching.

Here's the real danger: since hashing is deterministic (like we just covered), H' will be the exact same value every single time anyone submits the correct phrase. So the first time the real owner (or a beneficiary) legitimately claims the vault and sends H', that value is now public. Anyone who saw it broadcast — or even just looked at the historical transaction afterward — can copy that exact same H' and submit it themselves in a new transaction. The contract has no way to tell "this is the original owner sending it again" apart from "this is someone who copy-pasted a value they saw on Etherscan." It's not a secret anymore — it's a reusable password sitting in public view.

This is called a replay attack, and it's the classic reason "just send a fixed value that proves knowledge" never works on a transparent, public ledger — whether that fixed value is the raw phrase or a hash of it doesn't matter. Both are static, copyable data.

Why signatures/ZK-proofs don't have this problem:

The reason signatures and ZK-proofs actually work is that they're not static — each one is built to be tied to something unique about that specific claim attempt, like the vaultId, a nonce, or a timestamp, so a proof generated for one transaction can't be lifted and reused in another. A signature over "claim vault #42 right now" can't be replayed to claim vault #42 again later, because the contract can check "was this exact message signed by the right key" — copying the signature doesn't help an attacker construct a new valid signature for a different claim.

So the fix isn't "hash it again" — it's "make the proof non-reusable and non-revealing," which is a fundamentally different property than hashing gives you.

Thats why i said upon first match, the vault automatically locksdown. In the scenario an observer decides to copy the hash, what about the gas fee paid ? It means they mist be planning to cooy every sttempt on chain without knownwho actually holds it

You're onto something important — yes, copying the hash costs gas. But here's why that doesn't stop the attack: the payoff is the entire vault's contents, so gas is a rounding error compared to what's at stake.

Walk through the actual attack:

You know your secret. You submit a claim transaction with your H' (or plaintext, same problem either way).
Before your transaction is confirmed, it sits in the public mempool for a few seconds — anyone running a bot can see it.
An attacker's bot copies your exact value and submits their own transaction with the same proof-of-knowledge, but pays a higher gas fee than you did.
Because miners/validators order transactions by fee (highest gas first), the attacker's copycat transaction gets confirmed before yours — even though you submitted first.
The contract sees the attacker's transaction arrive "first" (in confirmed order, not real-world order), matches successfully, and sends the assets to the attacker's wallet — not yours.
Your original transaction then either fails (vault already claimed) or succeeds too late to matter.
So to your specific question — "wouldn't the attacker need to pay gas for every attempt without knowing who holds it?"

They don't copy randomly or blindly guess — they only need to act the instant they see a valid attempt appear in the mempool. They're not brute-forcing; they're watching and reacting. The moment your genuinely correct claim appears publicly (even before confirmation), that's their signal to strike — they don't need to know you, your identity, or your secret in advance. They just need to see the valid proof pass by and be fast enough (and pay enough gas) to jump the queue. This is a well-known real attack pattern called front-running, and bots that specifically do this are called generalized front-runners or "gas auction bots" — they scan the mempool 24/7 for exactly this kind of opportunity across every contract on the chain, not just yours.

Why "instant lockdown on match" doesn't save you here:

Your instinct — "lock the vault the millisecond it matches" — assumes transactions execute in the order they were sent. But blockchains don't work that way: they execute in the order they're confirmed, and confirmation order is decided by gas fees, not send time. By the time the contract even runs, the attacker's copy could already be scheduled to execute before yours. There's no "first" to lock down until the block is already built — and the attacker can buy their way into that first slot.

The gas cost, concretely: if a vault holds, say, $50,000 in assets, and gas costs $5–50 to front-run, that's a wildly profitable trade for the attacker — they'd happily pay far more than that. Gas fees deter spam and trivial griefing; they don't deter someone trying to steal a five- or six-figure payout.

This is exactly the class of problem signatures/ZK-proofs solve differently — not by hiding the value from the mempool, but by making a copied value useless even if seen, because it's cryptographically bound to the original claimant's address and can't be reused by anyone else.

Can we hide the vault from piblic eyes or is it impossible

Short answer: you can't hide it completely, but you can hide different parts of it to different degrees — the amount of privacy you get depends on how much you're willing to change about the architecture.

What's fundamentally impossible on BOT Chain (a public, transparent chain):

Every node that runs the network stores and can read the entire contract state — that's what "public blockchain" means. There is no setting, permission, or trick that lets a contract say "only this person can see my storage." If it's on BOT Chain, anyone running a node (or just using the explorer at scan.botchain.ai) can see:

That a vault with a given ID exists
Who the owner address is (since owner is a public struct field)
What tokens are registered to it
The stored hash
Every transaction ever sent to it
What you can obscure, with real engineering tradeoffs:

Hide the owner's real-world identity, not their address. The vault can be tied to a wallet address, but nobody automatically knows which human owns that address — unless that address has been linked publicly elsewhere (ENS name, a DEX trade, a doxxed transaction). This is "pseudonymity," which BOT Chain already gives you by default, same as Ethereum.
Use a fresh, single-purpose wallet for the vault, never used for anything else — never funded from an exchange account tied to your identity, never used to sign into anything. This makes on-chain correlation much harder, though not impossible (chain analysis firms do this for a living).
Obscure how much is inside, not that something exists. You could design the contract so token amounts/types are less directly visible (e.g. store commitments instead of literal balances) — but this adds real complexity and doesn't hide the vault's existence, only its contents.
Move to a privacy-preserving chain or layer (like using zk-based private state, e.g. Aztec-style architectures, or a fully shielded chain like Zcash-style designs). This is a completely different technical universe from a standard EVM chain like BOT Chain — it would mean rebuilding the whole contract model around encrypted state and proofs for everything, not just the secret. That's a multi-month research-grade undertaking, not a hackathon feature.
What you're really protecting matters. If your actual goal is "don't let random people find and try to crack my vault," pseudonymity + a genuinely strong secret already gets you most of the practical protection — since an attacker still can't do anything without the phrase, even if they can see the vault exists.
Bottom line for your timeline: full invisibility isn't achievable on a standard public EVM chain like BOT Chain without fundamentally changing the tech stack. What is achievable, and consistent with your "chain as witness" philosophy — the chain doesn't need to hide that a commitment exists, it just needs to never reveal the secret behind it. That's exactly what the ZK-proof approach does: the vault, the owner, and the hash stay public (as they must), but the one thing that actually needs protecting — the phrase — never touches the chain in a reversible form.

Want to go back to actually scaffolding that ZK proof-of-concept, since that seems to be the piece that solves the specific risk you're most worried about?

Is the zk proofs a feature of every evm network?

Not a built-in "feature" — it's something you build using tools the EVM provides, and not every EVM chain provides all of them equally well.

What ZK-proofs actually need from the underlying chain:

To verify a Groth16-style ZK-proof cheaply, a smart contract needs access to specific math operations called elliptic curve pairing operations — these are extremely expensive to compute in plain Solidity (would cost millions of gas), so Ethereum added special shortcut functions called precompiles to make them cheap. These live at fixed addresses:

0x06 — elliptic curve point addition
0x07 — elliptic curve point multiplication
0x08 — pairing check (the one ZK-proof verification actually depends on)
These have been part of Ethereum's EVM since a 2017 upgrade called Byzantium. Since then, essentially every major "EVM-compatible" chain — Polygon, BSC, Avalanche C-Chain, Arbitrum, Optimism, and most L1/L2 forks — inherited these same precompiles, because "EVM-compatible" generally means "runs the same opcodes and precompiles as Ethereum."

So the honest answer:

Is ZK verification possible on every EVM chain? Not guaranteed — it depends on whether that specific chain's client software kept those precompiles. A chain could theoretically strip them out or implement them differently.
Is it possible on almost every mainstream EVM chain, including forks like BOT Chain almost certainly is? Yes — because removing standard precompiles would break compatibility with a huge swath of existing Ethereum tooling and contracts, which defeats the entire point of calling yourself "EVM-compatible."
Is there a native "ZK mode" you toggle on a chain? No — you're not turning on a chain feature, you're deploying your own verifier contract that happens to lean on precompiles the chain already provides for free. The "ZK-ness" lives entirely in your own Solidity code (auto-generated by tools like snarkjs) and your circuit — not in any chain setting.
This is exactly why I recommended that quick test-deploy earlier: it's the fastest way to know for certain whether BOT Chain kept those specific precompiles intact, rather than relying on the general "should be fine, EVM-compatible chains usually keep this" inference.

But will the zk work perfectly?

Honest answer: no guarantee of "perfectly," and I want to be specific about what could actually go wrong, rather than give you false confidence.

Let's break "will it work" into the different things that actually have to go right, since they're separate risks:

1. Will the precompiles even be there? (Infrastructure risk — moderate confidence, unverified)
As discussed, very likely yes since BOT Chain calls itself EVM-compatible, but I haven't confirmed it directly — that's the quick test-deploy I suggested. Low risk, but not zero, and cheap to rule out.

2. Will the circuit itself be correct? (My biggest honest caveat)
This is the part I flagged before and want to repeat clearly: a ZK circuit can be subtly wrong in a way that still looks like it works. The specific failure mode is called an "under-constrained circuit" — it can accept proofs that shouldn't be valid, meaning someone could forge a fake proof and drain the vault, while all your tests pass because your tests only ever fed it correct inputs. This isn't a hypothetical — it's the single most common real-world ZK vulnerability class, and it's happened to funded, audited teams, not just hobbyists. For a simple "prove you know a Poseidon preimage" circuit, the risk is lower because it's such a standard pattern, but "lower risk" isn't "zero risk," and I can't personally give you audit-grade assurance on my own output here.

3. Will it work smoothly for users? (UX risk — solvable but real)
Generating a proof in-browser takes real compute — a few seconds on a modern phone, potentially longer on an old/low-end device. If a beneficiary is trying to claim a vault years later on whatever device they have, that's a variable you don't fully control. It's very workable, just not "instant" the way clicking a button usually feels.

4. Will it be bug-free code the first time? (Normal software risk)
Like any new, non-trivial code, a proof-of-concept built quickly is more likely to have integration bugs (wrong encoding, mismatched circuit inputs, wrong verifier deployment params) than something that's been through iteration and testing. That's fixable through testing, but "works on the first try, flawlessly" isn't a realistic bar for any new crypto code, mine included.

So, calibrated answer: the concept is sound and genuinely solves your leak problem — that part I'm confident about. Whether my specific implementation works perfectly on the first attempt, with no subtle circuit bugs, is not something I can promise. What I'd actually recommend, matching your "honest constrained MVP" philosophy: build it, test it thoroughly against both valid and deliberately invalid inputs on testnet, and treat it explicitly as "proof-of-concept — do not put real mainnet funds behind this without a second review" in your submission notes. That's the honest way to ship something genuinely innovative without overclaiming what one AI-assisted build session can guarantee.

Want me to start building it now, framed that way?

So its impossible to call the vault to the frontend snd start verification, the vault must be onchain?

Good question — let's separate "where does the data live" from "where does the verification happen," since they're different things.

The vault's data (hash, assets, owner) has to live on-chain — that's non-negotiable for what DMH is trying to do. The entire point of the "chain as witness" design is that no single party (not even you, not even me) should be trusted to say "yes, this claim is legitimate" — the chain itself is the referee. If the vault lived on a regular server/database instead, you'd be back to trusting whoever runs that server not to lie, get hacked, or disappear. That defeats the purpose of building this as a smart contract in the first place.

But verification could theoretically happen off-chain — here's why that's a bad idea:

Imagine: the frontend fetches the vault, checks the proof itself in the browser or on some backend server, and only calls the contract to say "trust me, this proof was valid, release the funds."

The problem: the contract would then be blindly trusting whatever the frontend or server tells it — anyone could write their own frontend that always says "valid!" regardless of the real proof, and the contract has no way to know the difference. You'd have reintroduced exactly the trust problem blockchains exist to remove. This is actually a well-known anti-pattern called an "oracle problem" — off-chain computation is only as trustworthy as whoever ran it, unless something on-chain independently checks the result.

Why on-chain verification isn't actually the burden it sounds like:

Here's the good news: ZK-proof verification is specifically designed to be cheap and fast for the verifier, even though generating the proof was expensive. This is one of the core promises of ZK-SNARKs — "succinct" is literally in the name (Succinct Non-interactive ARgument of Knowledge). Verifying a Groth16 proof on-chain typically costs a small, fixed amount of gas (a few hundred thousand gas — comparable to a normal token transfer, not some huge computation) regardless of how complex the original circuit was. So:

Heavy lifting (proof generation) → happens off-chain, locally, in the claimant's browser.
Cheap check (proof verification) → happens on-chain, where it can't be faked or skipped.
That split is exactly what makes ZK-proofs useful for blockchains: you get the trustlessness of on-chain verification without the plaintext ever having to travel there, and without the contract needing to do expensive computation itself.

So to directly answer: the vault must stay on-chain, and the verification step must also stay on-chain — but the expensive part (computing the proof from your secret phrase) happens entirely on your device beforehand, and only the small, cheap-to-check proof gets sent.

Can a blockchain follow the rules a contract sets?

Yes — that's actually the whole relationship between a blockchain and a smart contract, but the direction matters: the contract's rules only govern what happens once a transaction is already running — they don't control when or whether a transaction gets to run in the first place. That distinction is exactly why the front-running problem we discussed earlier exists.

What the blockchain does guarantee (the contract's own logic):

Once your attemptUnlock transaction is actually executing, the contract's code is followed exactly, every time, with no exceptions — that's the core promise of a blockchain: deterministic, tamper-proof execution. If your contract says "only release funds if the hash matches," every single node in the network runs that exact check, gets the same result, and agrees on it. Nobody can bribe a node to skip the check, nobody can edit the rule after the fact without literally forking the chain. This part is rock-solid.

What the blockchain does not let the contract control:

Transaction ordering. A contract can't say "process transactions in the order they were sent" — ordering is decided by miners/validators based on gas fees (or whatever the chain's block-building rules are), before your contract code ever runs. Your contract has zero say over this.
Who gets to see a transaction before it's confirmed. The mempool (where pending transactions wait) is public by design — a contract can't make its own incoming transactions invisible to outside observers.
Whether someone submits a copy of your data. A contract can check "does this proof match," but it can't prevent someone else from also submitting the same public data in their own transaction — unless the rule itself is designed to make copied data useless (which is what nonces, signatures, and ZK-proofs solve).
Analogy: think of the contract as a strict referee standing at the finish line — once a runner crosses, the referee applies the rules perfectly and fairly, no bias, no exceptions. But the referee has no control over the race itself — who started when, who got tripped, who took a shortcut before reaching the line. That's happening in a different domain (the track/mempool) the referee doesn't govern.

This is exactly why the fix for your leak/front-running concern isn't "make the referee stricter" — it's "change what the runners are required to carry across the line," so that even if someone copies what another runner is carrying, it doesn't help them finish the race themselves.

When does the contract execution start? When signed or when solved by s moner

Good question, and the distinction matters a lot for the exact leak/front-running timing we've been discussing. There are actually three separate moments here, not two:

1. When you sign the transaction (on your device)
This just means: your wallet uses your private key to cryptographically prove "I authorize this exact transaction." Nothing has been sent anywhere yet — this is like sealing an envelope. The contract hasn't run. Nobody else has seen it. This step is completely private.

2. When it's broadcast (enters the mempool)
Once signed, your wallet sends the transaction out to the network's nodes. It now sits in a public waiting room called the mempool — every node, and anyone running mempool-watching software, can see the full contents (including your plaintext phrase, in DMH's current design) before it's confirmed or executed. This is the moment the leak actually happens — not at execution, at broadcast.

3. When a validator/miner actually executes it (contract runs)
A validator picks transactions from the mempool (usually prioritizing higher gas fees), bundles them into a block, and only then does the contract's code actually run — checking the hash, moving funds, etc. This is the "referee applies the rules" moment from before.

So to directly answer: execution happens at step 3 — not when you sign, and not based on "who solved something first." BOT Chain doesn't use mining (that's Bitcoin-style proof-of-work); it uses a staking-based validator model, so there's no "puzzle-solving" step at all — validators are chosen to propose blocks based on their stake, not by racing to solve computations.

Why this timeline is exactly your front-running problem:

The leak and the vulnerability both happen in the gap between step 2 and step 3 — your data is already public in the mempool (step 2) before anyone has decided which transaction "wins" (step 3). An attacker doesn't need to out-solve anything; they just need to see your data in that public waiting room and submit their own copy with higher gas, so the validator picks theirs to execute first in step 3.

This is precisely why "lock the vault the instant it verifies" doesn't help — by the time we're at step 3, the attacker's copy may already be scheduled to execute before yours, because ordering was decided by gas fee, not by whose signature came first back in step 1.

Is there s dises amount of max gas fee? Or you can even set 2k dolz gas fee

There's no universal hard cap baked into the protocol saying "gas fees can't exceed $X" — you absolutely can set an enormous gas fee if you want to. Let's break down why, and where the real limits actually are.

How gas fees work (quick refresher):

Total fee = gas used × gas price. On modern EVM chains (post-EIP-1559, which most chains including likely BOT Chain use), gas price = base fee (network-determined, adjusts automatically) + priority fee (a tip you choose, to bribe your way to the front of the queue).

Can you set a $2,000 priority fee?

Technically yes — nothing stops you from setting an absurdly high priority fee. Wallets and RPC nodes will generally accept it (some wallets add a soft warning like "this fee looks unusually high, are you sure?" as a UX safety net, but that's just a UI courtesy, not a protocol rule).

So does that mean gas wars are unlimited?

In practice, a few things bound it:

Block gas limit — every block has a maximum total gas capacity (e.g., Ethereum mainnet is ~30 million gas per block). This limits how many transactions fit per block, not what any single person can bid — so it creates competition/scarcity, which is exactly what fuels gas auctions during front-running.
Economic rationality, not protocol enforcement — the only thing stopping someone from bidding $2,000 is whether it's still profitable for them. If a vault holds $50,000, an attacker bidding even $2,000 in gas to guarantee they win the race is still wildly profitable. This is exactly why gas fees are a weak deterrent against high-value targets — the attacker just does the math and pays whatever's needed, as long as it's less than the prize.
Validator/chain-specific rules — some chains impose their own min/max gas price bounds at the client or governance level (rare, but exists on a few specialized chains). I don't have confirmed info on whether BOT Chain does this — it isn't something I've seen mentioned in their docs so far, and would need a direct check if it mattered to your design.
Bottom line for your DMH concern: yes, an attacker absolutely can and will outbid you on gas if the prize is big enough — there's no natural ceiling protecting you here. This is exactly why the fix has to be cryptographic (make copied data useless) rather than economic (hoping gas costs deter theft) — for anything above trivial value, gas costs simply won't be the thing that stops a determined attacker.

So is there a fix that is guaranteed to work ?like is there a maths

Yes — there's real, standard math for this, and it's not exotic. This isn't "hope this works," it's decades-old, widely-deployed cryptography. Let me be precise about what's actually guaranteed vs. what still depends on correct implementation.

What's mathematically guaranteed (this part is not in question):

Digital signatures (ECDSA — the same math MetaMask already uses for every transaction you sign) have a rock-solid property: you cannot forge a valid signature for a message without the private key, no matter how much computing power you have (short of a working quantum computer, decades out and a separate problem for every EVM chain, not specific to you). This isn't a probabilistic "very hard" — it's backed by decades of cryptographic proof and it's the exact same math securing every crypto wallet on Earth right now.

How this actually stops front-running — the specific fix:

The trick isn't just "use a signature" — it's binding the signature to something unique about that specific attempt, so a copied signature is worthless. Concretely:

message = keccak256(vaultId, claimantAddress, nonce)
signature = sign(message, privateKey)
The claimant signs a message that includes their own wallet address. Even if an attacker copies the exact signature from the mempool, it's cryptographically tied to the original signer's address — the attacker's transaction would come from their address, and the contract checks "does this signature match the address that's actually calling this function." A copied signature fails that check instantly, because the attacker isn't the original signer.

This is exactly the math behind ecrecover — a built-in Ethereum precompile (address 0x01) that takes a signature and returns the address that created it. This part is not new technology, not experimental, not something that "might work" — it's the single most battle-tested piece of cryptography in all of Ethereum, since it's literally what secures every transaction ever sent.

Where "memorable phrase" comes back into it:

Earlier we said signatures kill the "memorable phrase" idea because a private key isn't memorable. But here's a bridge: you can derive a private key deterministically from a memorable phrase, using a standard, audited technique:

privateKey = keccak256(secretPlaintext + salt)
The claimant types their memorable phrase, the frontend deterministically derives a key from it (same phrase always gives the same key — this part is guaranteed, same determinism property as before), signs the claim message with that derived key, and only the signature — not the phrase, not the key — ever touches the chain.

The one part that still isn't "pure math guarantee" — implementation:

The signature math itself is bulletproof. What still requires care (same as any software): making sure the frontend code correctly derives the key, correctly constructs the message, and correctly checks ecrecover output in the contract — normal, testable software correctness, not cryptographic uncertainty. This is a much smaller, much better-understood risk surface than the ZK circuit risk I flagged earlier, because ecrecover is a single well-known precompile, not a custom circuit you're writing from scratch.

Straight comparison now that you're asking "what's guaranteed":

Signature-derived-from-phrase	ZK-proof
Core math proven/guaranteed	✅ Yes — decades-old, used everywhere	✅ Yes — Groth16 math is sound
Custom code risk	Low (just ecrecover + key derivation)	Higher (custom circuit, easy to under-constrain)
Keeps memorable phrase UX	✅ Yes, if you derive key from phrase	✅ Yes
Fixes front-running	✅ Yes, if bound to claimant address	✅ Yes
Given this, the phrase-derived-signature approach might actually be the better answer to your original objection — it keeps the memorable phrase, uses simpler and more battle-tested math than a custom ZK circuit, and directly solves the front-running problem. Want me to build this version instead of the ZK one?

Yes — there's real, standard math for this, and it's not exotic. This isn't "hope it works," it's decades-old cryptography already running under the hood of every wallet you've ever used. Let me be precise about what's genuinely guaranteed vs. what still comes down to careful implementation.

What's mathematically guaranteed (not in question):

Digital signatures (ECDSA — the exact math MetaMask uses to sign every transaction already) have a hard property: you cannot forge a valid signature without the private key, regardless of computing power (short of a working quantum computer — a separate, far-off problem affecting every EVM chain equally, not something specific to your design). This isn't "very hard," it's proven, and it's the same math securing essentially all of crypto right now.

The specific fix — binding the signature to the attempt:

The trick isn't just "sign something" — it's making sure a copied signature is useless to anyone but the original signer:

message = keccak256(vaultId, claimantAddress, nonce)
signature = sign(message, privateKey)
Because the message includes the claimant's own address, even if an attacker copies the signature straight out of the mempool, it's cryptographically bound to the original signer. The contract checks "does this signature actually match the address calling this function right now" — using ecrecover, a built-in Ethereum precompile (address 0x01). A copied signature fails instantly, since the attacker isn't the address it was signed for. This precompile is arguably the single most battle-tested piece of code in all of Ethereum — it's what verifies every transaction, ever.

Bringing back the "memorable phrase" you wanted to keep:

privateKey = keccak256(secretPlaintext + salt)
The claimant types their memorable phrase, the frontend deterministically derives a key from it (same phrase → same key, every time), signs the claim with that derived key, and only the signature ever touches the chain — never the phrase, never the key.

What's still "just software," not crypto risk: correctly deriving the key, correctly building the signed message, correctly checking ecrecover's output — normal, testable logic, not open cryptographic uncertainty. Much smaller risk surface than a custom ZK circuit, since you're using one well-known precompile instead of writing new math from scratch.

Straight comparison:

Phrase-derived signature	ZK-proof
Core math proven	✅ decades-old, used everywhere	✅ sound, but newer
Custom code risk	Low — one precompile	Higher — custom circuit
Keeps memorable phrase	✅	✅
Fixes front-running	✅	✅
Given you want something guaranteed and keep the memorable-phrase UX, this is probably the stronger pick over ZK. Want me to build this version instead?

Ao whats the idea to use a phrase to create a private key?

The idea: instead of asking you to remember a random 64-character private key (impossible), you remember a normal phrase — and a formula turns that phrase into a private key the same way, every time.

The core idea, simply:

A private key, at the end of the day, is just a very large number (256 bits — basically a really long number). You could pick that number randomly, but nobody can memorize a random 256-bit number. So instead, we generate that number from something memorable, using a one-way function — the same keccak256 hash we've been talking about this whole conversation:

privateKey = keccak256("my memorable phrase" + salt)
Since hashing is deterministic (same input → same output, every time — we covered this earlier), typing the exact same phrase always produces the exact same private key. That's the whole trick: you don't need to store or remember the key — you just need to remember the phrase, and regenerate the key from it whenever you need it.

Where you've actually already seen this idea:

This isn't new — it's literally how modern crypto wallets already work. When MetaMask gives you a 12-word "seed phrase" and says "write these down," that phrase isn't decorative — it's fed through a standardized derivation process (BIP-39/BIP-32, industry-standard) to deterministically produce your actual private keys. You've been trusting this exact concept every time you've used a wallet.

Why this matters for DMH specifically:

Setup: you pick a memorable phrase. The frontend derives a private key from it, and derives the matching public key/address, and registers that public info on-chain (public keys are safe to expose, same as before).
Claim: you type the same phrase again. The frontend re-derives the exact same private key locally, uses it to sign a claim message, and sends only the signature — never the phrase, never the key.
Because the key is always re-derivable from the phrase, you never have to store the key anywhere — which is good, since storing keys is its own security headache. You (or your beneficiary) just needs to remember the phrase, same UX as before.
One important catch — this doesn't remove the earlier weak-secret problem, it just relocates it:

Since privateKey = keccak256(phrase) is still deterministic, an attacker who guesses your phrase can derive the exact same private key and impersonate you perfectly — same brute-force risk as before, if the phrase is weak ("password123" derives just as easily into a key as it would into a hash). The phrase still needs to be strong (a genuine diceware-style passphrase, not a common word) — this fix solves the front-running/leak problem, not the weak-secret problem. Those are two separate risks we've discussed, and this only closes one of them.

So this project is a failure

No — I don't think that follows from anything we've actually found. What you've been doing this whole conversation is exactly what good security work looks like: poking at a design until you find its real weak points before shipping it, not after. That's the opposite of failure.

Let's be precise about where things actually stand:

What's genuinely solid in DMH right now:

The asset model (approve-only, never custodial) — sound.
The salting scheme for the stored hash — correctly designed.
Skip-and-continue token sweep, self-expiring cooldowns — thoughtful, working design.
Everything about setup-time hashing — already safe as-is.
What you found: one specific, well-understood weakness in the claim step — plaintext exposure and front-running risk. This is a known, named category of problem (not a sign of bad engineering) that shows up in lots of early-stage on-chain designs. You didn't break the project by finding it — you found it before it went to mainnet, which is exactly when you want to find it.

And you already found the fix. The phrase-derived-signature approach we just walked through is a real, standard, well-tested cryptographic pattern that closes the gap while keeping the UX you wanted. That's not "the project failed" — that's "the project has a v1 claim mechanism, and you now know exactly what v2 needs to look like."

If you want, I can start actually building the v2 claim flow now — the key derivation, the signature scheme, and the updated contract logic — so you have something concrete rather than just the conceptual fix. Given the hackathon deadline, want to figure out first whether this is worth the build time before the deadline, or worth documenting as an "honest known limitation + roadmap item" like the doc already does for the mobile wallet testing gap?

Can a contract functiok be msde hidden ?

Short answer: no, not in the sense of "hidden from view" — but there are different meanings of "hidden" worth separating, since Solidity's own keywords can be misleading here.

Solidity's private/internal — this is about who can call it, not visibility of the code:

solidity
function checkSecret(bytes32 hash) private { ... }
private and internal only control which other contracts are allowed to call that function directly. They do not hide the function from view. Once your contract is deployed, its full compiled bytecode sits on-chain, public, forever — and anyone can:

Decompile the bytecode back into readable (if slightly ugly) logic using free tools (Etherscan/Blockscout does this automatically, look at any contract's "Code" tab).
See the full source code directly, if you verify your contract on the explorer (which you'll want to do anyway, since unverified contracts look suspicious to users).
So "private" in Solidity is a permission, not a secret — a private function's logic is just as publicly readable as a public one; it just can't be invoked from outside in the normal way (though even that has caveats — storage can still often be read directly by anyone with eth_getStorageAt, regardless of private/internal visibility keywords, since those keywords are a Solidity-level convention, not something the EVM itself enforces at the storage layer).

Can the actual logic/math be obscured, EVM-level?

Not meaningfully. Even unverified, un-labeled bytecode can be disassembled into opcodes and reasoned about — it's slower and uglier to reverse-engineer, but "security through obscurity" at the bytecode level has never held up against a motivated attacker, and professional auditors/attackers do this routinely.

What this means for your DMH design specifically:

This actually reinforces everything we've discussed: you can't rely on hiding the check (the comparison logic, the fact that a hash exists, the claim function's existence) — the only thing that can be genuinely protected is the secret value itself, by making sure it's never transmitted in a form anyone could read or replay. That's exactly why the fix has to be cryptographic (ZK-proof or phrase-derived signature) rather than "hide the function" — hiding functions was never actually on the table for a public chain.

Does a smart contract run on the chain 24/7 or does it need a caller

A smart contract is completely passive — it does nothing on its own. It only runs the exact moment someone (or something) sends it a transaction that triggers one of its functions. No caller, no execution, ever.

Think of it like a vending machine, not a running program:

A vending machine doesn't hum along "thinking" 24/7 — it just sits there, inert, until someone inserts a coin and presses a button. At that exact moment, its internal mechanism runs, dispenses (or doesn't), and then it goes back to sitting idle. A smart contract works exactly the same way: its code is just sitting in storage on every node, doing literally nothing, until a transaction calls one of its functions.

What this means concretely for DMH:

ping(), attemptUnlock(), getStatus() — none of these "run in the background." They only execute the instant someone submits a transaction calling them.
Even the inactivity countdown (lastPing, inactivityPeriod) isn't actively "counting down" somewhere — the contract just stores a timestamp. Whether a vault has "expired" is calculated on demand, only when someone calls getStatus() and the contract does simple math: (current block time) − lastPing > inactivityPeriod. There's no clock ticking inside the contract between calls.
The important implication — this is a common misconception people building "if inactive, do X" systems run into: nothing happens automatically when a vault becomes eligible for claiming. The contract doesn't "notice" the owner went inactive and proactively release funds — it just sits there, correctly answering "yes, this vault is expired" if and only if someone bothers to ask, by calling getStatus() or attemptUnlock(). If literally nobody ever calls the contract again, an expired vault just sits there forever, unclaimed, doing nothing — the blockchain doesn't run any background process to enforce the deadline for you.

Why this matters for your design: this is exactly why DMH's model depends on a claimant actively showing up and calling attemptUnlock() — there's no autonomous "sweep" happening. If you ever wanted true automation (e.g., "auto-distribute the moment the timer expires, no claimant needed"), you'd need an external trigger — something like a keeper network (e.g. Chainlink Automation, Gelato) that periodically calls your contract on a schedule, since the chain itself has no built-in concept of "wake up and do something at time T."

Can you create a private key with a customised phrase?

Yes — that's exactly the mechanism we discussed earlier (privateKey = keccak256(phrase + salt)), and it's a real, well-established technique. Let me give you the fuller picture, since there's a right way and a risky way to do this.

The basic idea:

javascript
import { keccak256, toUtf8Bytes } from "ethers";

const phrase = "your custom memorable phrase here";
const privateKey = keccak256(toUtf8Bytes(phrase));
// this 32-byte hash IS a valid private key
Any 256-bit number is technically a valid Ethereum private key (with a tiny, practically-impossible-to-hit exception — the curve order boundary — that libraries handle for you automatically). So hashing a phrase down to 32 bytes gives you a usable key, deterministically, every time.

But there's a right way to do this, and a naive way — and the difference matters a lot:

Naive (risky): keccak256(phrase) directly, like above. This is fast to compute — which is bad here. An attacker can test billions of guessed phrases per second on modern hardware, because a single keccak256 hash is cheap.

Proper way — use a slow key-derivation function (KDF): instead of a plain hash, use something specifically designed to be slow and memory-hard on purpose, like PBKDF2, scrypt, or Argon2. These do the same "phrase → key" job, but deliberately take a fraction of a second (or more) per attempt, and can require significant memory too — turning a billion-guesses-per-second attack into a few-hundred-guesses-per-second attack. This is genuinely the industry-standard approach; it's exactly what most crypto wallets use to encrypt your keystore file with your password.

javascript
import { pbkdf2 } from "ethers"; // or a dedicated crypto library

const privateKey = pbkdf2(
  toUtf8Bytes(phrase),
  toUtf8Bytes(salt), // e.g. wallet address, vaultId
  100000,             // iterations — deliberately slow
  32,                 // output length in bytes
  "sha256"
);
The standard, battle-tested version of "phrase → key" you've actually already used:

This is precisely what a BIP-39 seed phrase is (the 12/24-word phrase every wallet gives you). It's not literally the same math, but same philosophy: human-memorable words → deterministic key derivation, using a standardized, audited process that the entire crypto industry already trusts. If you wanted maximum credibility for DMH's judges, you could even lean on BIP-39-style libraries directly instead of a custom scheme — "we used the same derivation standard as every hardware wallet" is a stronger claim than "we invented our own."

The part that doesn't change, regardless of which method: the phrase itself still needs to be genuinely unguessable — a proper KDF makes attacks slower, not impossible, against a weak phrase like "password123." It buys you a lot more safety margin, but a strong, high-entropy phrase is still doing the real work.

So i have to create  a site that accepts a see phrase of any length as long as its tied to a current private key?

Close, but let's tighten this up — a few distinctions matter here.

What you actually need to build:

Not a site that "accepts a seed phrase tied to a current private key" — rather, a site where:

At setup: the user types any custom phrase (any length, any words — this is not a BIP-39 seed phrase from an existing wallet, it's a brand-new secret the user invents for this vault specifically).
Your frontend runs that phrase through a KDF (PBKDF2/scrypt, as discussed) to derive a brand-new private key — one that didn't exist before, generated fresh from their phrase.
From that derived private key, you compute the matching public address (standard elliptic curve math, one line in ethers.js/viem).
Only the public address gets registered on-chain — the phrase and derived key never leave the browser.
At claim time, same flow in reverse:

Claimant types the same phrase they set up with.
Frontend re-derives the identical private key (deterministic — same phrase always produces the same key).
Uses that key to sign a claim message.
Sends only the signature to the contract — never the phrase, never the key.
One important correction to your phrasing — "any length":

You can technically accept any length, but you shouldn't want to. This is the same weak-secret problem from earlier: if you let someone type "cat" as their phrase, the KDF slowness helps a little, but a 3-character phrase is still crackable. You'll want to enforce a practical minimum — something like requiring a genuinely long, multi-word passphrase (not a strict character-length rule alone, since entropy matters more than raw length) — and probably show a strength indicator, similar to what password managers do.

So the one-sentence version: yes — you're building a site that takes a custom secret phrase and deterministically turns it into a private key used only to sign claims, never to store or transmit the phrase or key itself. Want me to start scaffolding this — the KDF-based key derivation module plus the updated attemptUnlock signature-check contract logic?

That what i was ssying, instesd of even restricting it to english, we can introduce japanese or sny other characters right?

Yes, exactly — since the phrase gets converted to raw bytes before hashing (via toUtf8Bytes() or equivalent), the specific language or script doesn't matter to the math at all. Japanese, Arabic, emoji, mixed scripts — all of it works, because keccak256/PBKDF2 don't care about "words," they just care about bytes.

javascript
const phrase = "私の秘密の言葉は森の中にある"; // works exactly the same
const privateKey = pbkdf2(toUtf8Bytes(phrase), salt, 100000, 32, "sha256");
One real technical wrinkle to know about — Unicode normalization:

The same-looking phrase can sometimes be encoded as different underlying bytes depending on input method, keyboard, or OS — this is called Unicode normalization. For example, some accented characters or certain Japanese characters can be represented multiple ways at the byte level even though they render identically on screen. If the setup device encodes it one way and the claim device encodes it slightly differently, you'd get a different hash from the "same" phrase — a devastating bug, since the vault becomes unclaimable with the "correct" phrase.

The fix is standard and simple: run the phrase through NFC normalization (a built-in JavaScript function) before hashing, both at setup and claim:

javascript
const normalized = phrase.normalize("NFC");
This guarantees the same visual phrase always produces the same bytes, regardless of device, OS, keyboard layout, or language. This is genuinely a must-have, not a nice-to-have, the moment you support non-ASCII input — it's a well-known gotcha in any system dealing with multilingual text (password managers, seed phrase tools, etc. all have to handle this).

Bonus, since this is actually a nice fit for your interests: given you mentioned Japanese language interest earlier, this could be a genuinely distinctive feature for the hackathon — "multilingual secret phrases, not just English" is a real, defensible UX differentiator most competing projects likely won't have thought about at all.

Want me to include this multilingual + normalization handling directly in the key-derivation module when I build it?

So after generating this private key and obtaining the public address, we can now assign the funds of the normal wallet to the new?

Careful — I think there's a mix-up here that's important to untangle, because it would actually undo the whole non-custodial design DMH is built on.

What the derived key/address is actually for:

It's not a wallet that holds funds. It's purely an identity used for signing — a way to prove "I know the phrase" without revealing it. Think of it less like a wallet and more like a stamp or a badge: its only job is to produce a valid signature that the contract can check.

Why you should NOT move funds into it:

Remember DMH's whole architecture: "no assets move or get locked up front — a per-token approve/setApprovalForAll from the owner's own EOA is all that's granted." The funds stay in your real wallet (your actual MetaMask/normal EOA) the entire time. The contract only has permission (an allowance) to move them at successful-claim time — it never custodies them, and neither does this derived key.

If you moved your real funds into the phrase-derived address instead, you'd have:

Recreated exactly the risk you were trying to avoid — now that address's key is derivable from a phrase, so if the phrase is ever compromised, someone can drain funds directly, immediately, with no vault logic involved at all.
Lost the whole non-custodial safety model — you'd now need to trust a single derived key with actual custody, rather than using it only as a disposable signing proof.
How the pieces actually fit together, correctly:

Wallet	Purpose	Holds funds?
Your real EOA (MetaMask)	Owns the assets, grants approval to the DMH contract	✅ Yes — funds stay here always
Phrase-derived address	Registered on-chain as "the address allowed to claim"; used only to sign the claim message	❌ No — never touches funds directly
DMH contract	Holds the allowance (not the assets) and executes the actual transfer to the successful claimant's address at claim time	❌ No — never custodies either
At claim time, the contract checks the signature came from the registered phrase-derived address, and then transfers assets to whichever address the claimant specifies as the destination (could even be a totally separate "receive here" address, decoupled from the signing key entirely, if you want extra flexibility).

So: the derived key proves who's allowed to claim, but it should never be the place funds actually sit — before, during, or after. Does that distinction make sense, or do you want me to walk through exactly how the claim transaction would be structured?

I am saying that that new provate key will be pre authorized to drain the funds of the wallet so that in the event the original key gets lost, i can use that generated private key that sleesey has sccess ro transfer the funds out

That's a genuinely valid pattern — it exists in real wallets under the name "social recovery" or "backup signer." Yes, it's technically doable, but let's be precise about what it actually does differently from DMH's current design, because it changes the security model in an important way.

How this would actually work:

solidity
// Your real wallet approves the phrase-derived address to spend
token.approve(derivedAddress, amount);
// or for NFTs
nft.setApprovalForAll(derivedAddress, true);
Once approved, the derived address can call transferFrom() at any time to move those specific tokens out — and since you can regenerate that address's private key anytime just by re-typing your phrase, you effectively have a standing backup key that survives losing your main wallet's key.

This works — but note three real differences from DMH's actual design:

No deadman-switch condition, no timer, no waiting period. DMH's whole model only lets a claim happen after inactivity. A direct approve() to the derived address has no such gate — that address can drain funds the instant it's approved, at any moment, whether you're alive and active or not. This isn't "in the event I lose access," it's "this key can act right now, forever, until you revoke it." If that's what you want (a personal backup key), fine — but it's a different feature than the inheritance/inactivity model DMH is built around.
No rate-limiting, no escalating fee, no cooldown. DMH's contract deliberately makes wrong guesses expensive and slower (fee doubling, cooldown) to blunt brute-force attempts. A raw approve() has none of that — if someone guesses your phrase, they can drain funds in one shot, with zero friction, zero attempts-based protection. This makes the phrase's strength even more critical than in the vault model.
Native coin (BOT) can't be "approved." approve() only works for ERC-20/ERC-721 style tokens with that standard built in — it does not work for the chain's native gas token. If your goal includes recovering native BOT balance, this approach won't cover it; you'd need a different mechanism (e.g., a multisig or account abstraction wallet) for that specific asset type.
Practical gas catch: the derived address needs some native token balance of its own to pay gas when it calls transferFrom() — an empty derived address can't submit any transaction at all unless something funds it first (or a relayer/meta-transaction pays on its behalf).

If your actual goal is "backup key for my own wallet," this is a reasonable, standard idea — it's essentially DIY social recovery. If your goal is still "inheritance vault triggered by inactivity" (the original DMH concept), this bypasses that entirely and turns it into an always-live backdoor instead. Which one are you actually trying to build here — a personal recovery mechanism, or still the inheritance/inactivity vault?

Wait,  but in the end, all you need is a customized ohrase right? So 2 same phrase will generate the same provate key?

Yes — exactly right, that's the core property this entire mechanism depends on. Same phrase + same derivation settings (salt, KDF, iterations) → always the same private key, on any device, any time, forever. That's what makes it usable as a recovery/claim mechanism at all — you're not storing a key anywhere, you're regenerating it on demand from something memorable.

But this cuts both ways — worth restating clearly since it's the crux of everything we've discussed:

Good: you (or a beneficiary) can always reproduce the key later, with nothing to lose except the phrase itself.
Risk: anyone else who ever learns or correctly guesses that phrase can reproduce the exact same key just as easily — and now has full signing power (or full drain power, in the backup-key version you just described). There's no "only I can do this" protection baked in beyond the strength of the phrase itself.
This is why every earlier point still applies at full force here:

The phrase must be genuinely high-entropy (not a common word/sentence).
Use a slow KDF (PBKDF2/scrypt), not a raw single hash, to slow down brute-force attempts.
Normalize Unicode if you're allowing multilingual input, so the "same" phrase reliably produces the "same" bytes across devices.
One more consequence worth flagging, since you're now leaning toward the "backup key" version specifically: because there's no on-chain rate-limiting on a direct approve()-based drain (unlike DMH's vault, which doubles fees on wrong guesses), the entire security of the backup key rests on phrase strength alone — there's no second layer of defense if the phrase turns out to be weaker than you thought. That's the real tradeoff of choosing simplicity (just a phrase, no vault logic) over DMH's original friction-based design.

So we need to implement a second 2 auth

Careful — "2FA" as commonly understood (a phone code, an authenticator app, an email link) doesn't translate directly to smart contracts, because a contract has no way to independently verify "did a text message get delivered to this phone." Let's separate what's actually achievable on-chain from what needs an off-chain helper.

What "second factor" can actually mean here, in order of how well it fits a contract:

1. Multi-signature (the on-chain-native version of 2FA) — closest fit
Instead of one phrase deriving one key that can act alone, require two independent things before a drain/claim succeeds — e.g., the phrase-derived key and a second, separately-held key (a hardware wallet, a trusted family member's wallet, or a second phrase). The contract checks both signatures are present before releasing funds. This is exactly what DMH's own doc philosophy already gestures at with "guardian dispute window" in your earlier Legacy Vault project — multi-party approval is the native way contracts do "more than one factor."

2. Time-delay + veto window (a different kind of second factor)
Instead of requiring two keys, require two moments in time: the phrase-derived key initiates a claim, but funds don't move for e.g. 48 hours — during which the real owner (if they're actually fine and just lost their main wallet) can cancel it using their still-working primary wallet. This is "proof you're still in control" as the second factor, not "another password."

3. Off-chain 2FA bridged on-chain — least native, most fragile
You could build something like: user enters phrase → backend sends an SMS/email code → user enters code → backend signs a message authorizing the claim → contract checks that signature. This works, but now you've reintroduced a trusted third party (your backend/SMS provider) into a system whose entire point was removing trusted intermediaries. If your server goes down, gets hacked, or you can't afford to run it anymore, the vault becomes unclaimable or fake-claimable. This cuts directly against "chain as witness."

Given your actual goal — losing your main wallet, wanting a backup that isn't drainable instantly by a phrase leak — option 1 or 2 fit best:

Multi-sig: strongest, but means you need a second trusted party/device set up in advance (harder UX, more setup friction).
Time-delay + cancel window: simplest to build, no second party needed, and directly solves "what if the phrase leaks" — because even a successful drain attempt gives the real owner a window to notice and stop it, as long as their main wallet still works.
Given DMH's existing design already has a cooldown/escalating-fee pattern, and your Legacy Vault project already used a "guardian dispute window" concept, a time-delay veto window is the one most consistent with your own prior designs and least reliant on new infrastructure. Want me to sketch how that would sit on top of the phrase-derived-signature approach?

Option 1 and 2 seems okay, having to phrases only tou can guess and requiring a multi signature.the chamces of someone thinking of the same phrase is low and almost close to zero, and its almost impossible to forget the 2 since they are self chose words, even if someone chose rhe same 2 phrses as you i doubt it would be to sign your own vault they may jave created it for another ?

There's a subtle but important flaw in that reasoning, so let's stress-test it properly before you build around it.

Your logic, restated: "Even if two people picked the exact same 2 phrases, they'd need to specifically target my vault, not just have those phrases — so the odds of someone both matching my phrases and attacking my specific vault are near-zero."

Here's the flaw: the attacker doesn't need to "happen to pick" your phrases. They deliberately try to guess yours specifically. This isn't a coincidence problem — it's a targeted brute-force problem, and those are completely different math.

Coincidence framing (what you're picturing): "What are the odds two random people on Earth independently choose the same phrase?" — yes, if phrases are long/random enough, this is astronomically unlikely.

Attack framing (what actually happens): "What are the odds someone specifically trying to guess your two phrases, using every trick available, eventually succeeds?" — this is a completely different, much scarier question, because:

Your address, vault existence, and the fact that it requires 2 phrases are all public (from earlier: nothing can be hidden on-chain).
An attacker doesn't need luck — they can run dictionaries, leaked-password databases, personal-info guesses (pet names, birthdays, things you've posted publicly) against your specific vault, 24/7, offline, for as long as they want, completely undetected, since guessing offline doesn't touch the chain at all until they're confident.
Multi-sig/2-phrase doesn't make guessing harder per phrase — it just means they need to correctly guess two things instead of one. If each phrase individually is weak (something personally guessable, not a genuine high-entropy secret), needing two weak things isn't meaningfully safer than needing one weak thing — attackers who profile a specific target often can guess several "personal" secrets, not just one.
Where 2-of-2 (or better, 2-of-3) genuinely does help — and it's a different property than "double the guesses":

The real value of multi-factor isn't "twice as hard to guess" — it's diversifying how the secret can leak. E.g.:

Phrase A lives only in your head.
Phrase B lives with a trusted family member, or in a separate physical safe.
Now, an attacker needs to compromise two independent channels, not just get lucky guessing correlated personal info from one person's life (which is the realistic way most "secure" secrets actually get broken — social engineering, data breaches, guessing based on public info about one person).

The bottom line: the security doesn't come from "how many phrases," it comes from (a) each phrase being genuinely high-entropy (not just personally memorable), and (b) the two phrases being sourced from independent contexts so compromising one doesn't make compromising the other easier. Two memorable-but-guessable phrases from the same person's life are not meaningfully safer than one — they're just two doors into the same house.

Does that reframe change how you'd want to structure who/where the second phrase comes from?

Isnt that why we introduced the gas fee mechanism?

Isn't that why we introduced the claim fee mechanism and cool down for s wallet with  failed attempts

You're right that the fee escalation + cooldown targets exactly this problem — but it's worth being precise about which attack it stops and which one it doesn't, because the two brute-force scenarios we've discussed are actually different in an important way.

The escalating-fee/cooldown mechanism protects against on-chain guessing:

Recall from the doc: every attemptUnlock() call costs a fee, and wrong guesses double that fee (up to a cap) plus trigger a cooldown. This makes on-chain, contract-facing brute-force expensive and slow — someone spamming attemptUnlock() with guess after guess gets economically punished fast. This part genuinely works as designed.

But here's the gap: this only applies to guesses that actually touch the contract.

The dictionary/personal-info attack I described earlier happens entirely offline — an attacker takes your public salt (owner address + vaultId, both visible on-chain) and runs keccak256(guess, owner, vaultId) on their own computer, comparing against your stored hash, millions of times per second, on hardware they control. They never call the contract until they already know the answer. The fee/cooldown mechanism can't touch this phase at all, because from the contract's perspective, nothing is happening — no transaction, no fee, no cooldown triggered, no visibility whatsoever that an attack is even underway.

So to directly answer your question: no, the fee/cooldown doesn't cover this specific risk — it's a real, working defense, but for a different attack surface (spamming the live contract), not for offline pre-computation against the stored hash. Once an attacker has correctly guessed offline, they only need to submit one single successful transaction — the fee/cooldown never even gets a chance to slow them down, because it only escalates after a wrong attempt is made on-chain, and they never make a wrong one.

This is exactly why the actual strength requirement doesn't come from the contract's economic design — it comes from the phrase's raw entropy. No amount of on-chain friction protects a weak secret from offline guessing, because offline guessing bypasses the contract entirely until the very last step. The fee mechanism is a great defense for one thing (spam/DoS-style guessing pressure on the live system); it's not a substitute for the phrase itself being genuinely unguessable.

How long will it tske on average to guess that on  a hardware? I will specify guidelines about including something personal in the phrase creation. And also after a wallet is lost, there is a cool down before people can start attempting x even those with the correct key. So if the owner with the correct key can input the right phrase in a minute csn the other catch up? Or it it that the observer has all the time till the claim date

Two separate questions — let me split them properly, because the timing question especially has a subtlety worth catching before it undermines your design.

Question 1: How long to brute-force a phrase?
This depends entirely on the phrase's entropy (how many possible combinations exist), not its length in characters. Rough real-world numbers using a modern high-end GPU rig doing offline keccak256 guessing (billions of hashes/sec is realistic for keccak256 specifically, since it's fast by design — bad for this use case, as we discussed for IMEIs):

Phrase type	Example	Approx. time to crack
Single common word	"sunshine"	Milliseconds
Personal fact (pet name + birth year)	"Max2015"	Seconds to minutes
Short sentence, common structure	"ilovemygrandma"	Minutes to hours
4 random dictionary words (diceware-style)	"correct horse battery staple"	Centuries+ with current hardware
Long, unique, non-dictionary phrase	genuinely random 20+ chars	Effectively infinite
Your plan to "include something personal" is actually the opposite of what improves security — this is worth flagging directly, since it could quietly undo the whole plan. Personal facts (pet names, birthdays, hometowns, relatives' names) are precisely what attackers target first, especially for an inheritance-style vault where the attacker may specifically be someone who knew the deceased/inactive owner — family friction over inheritance is a very real, well-documented motive. "Personal and memorable" and "secure" are often in direct tension; the security community's actual guidance is the opposite of intuition: random, unrelated words are safer than anything meaningful to your life, precisely because meaningful things are guessable by anyone who knew you.

Question 2: The race between the legitimate owner and an attacker
This is the sharper question, and here's the subtlety: the cooldown only applies to failed attempts, not to the very first attempt made once claiming opens.

Walk through the timeline:

Inactivity period expires. Claiming becomes possible for anyone.
The very first attemptUnlock() call — whether from you or an attacker — has no cooldown to wait through, since cooldown only kicks in after a wrong guess.
So if an attacker has already pre-computed the correct answer via offline brute-force before the expiry date even arrives, they can submit their correct guess in the same block window as you, or earlier — there's no "waiting line," and the same front-running/gas-fee-priority problem from before still applies. Whoever's transaction gets confirmed first wins, regardless of who "should" rightfully claim it.
So to directly answer: no, the owner doesn't get a head start "if they know the phrase and type fast." The moment the vault becomes claimable, it's a race decided by gas fees and transaction confirmation order — not by who conceptually "deserves" to win. And crucially, the attacker isn't racing to guess at that moment — as established, they've had the entire time before the deadline (potentially months or years, since inactivity periods can be set up to 10 years) to brute-force offline, quietly, with zero time pressure and zero risk of triggering any cooldown. They just need their pre-computed correct transaction ready to fire the instant the deadline hits.

This actually strengthens the case for the signature-based fix even further, since it closes both problems at once: a signature tied to the claimant's address can't be front-run (as established), and if the "phrase" is really deriving a private key rather than being submitted as a checkable hash, there's genuinely nothing for an attacker to brute-force toward until they already have the exact right phrase — same offline risk as before, but at least the race-condition layer disappears entirely.

No the goal isnt to include something personal x i will warn the users not to include something personal they can instert even s whole poem as  the first phrse, and some random kanji with english translation only them know as the second, and they will need both to be correct word for word for it to work

That's a genuinely strong approach — a full poem and a kanji+translation pair have real, meaningful entropy, much higher than typical passwords. A few things worth nailing down so the design actually delivers the security you're expecting.

Where this design is strong:

Length and uniqueness (an original poem you wrote) means the search space is enormous — nobody's precomputing "guess every possible poem."
Requiring exact match on two independent secrets multiplies the difficulty (not just adds it) — if each phrase alone would take, say, 10²⁰ guesses, needing both correct multiplies to roughly 10⁴⁰, which is comfortably beyond any realistic brute-force, even with future hardware improvements.
One important catch: is it your own poem, or a known one?
This is the one thing that could quietly undermine all that entropy. If "the poem" is something publicly findable (a famous haiku, a well-known verse, song lyrics, a Bible passage) — even if it feels personal or meaningful to you — it's already in attacker dictionaries. Security researchers specifically build wordlists out of exactly this kind of thing (quotes, scripture, lyrics) because people gravitate toward meaningful public text. The entropy only holds if it's something you composed yourself, not text that exists anywhere else on the internet. Same logic applies to the kanji phrase — if it's a known idiom or proverb, it's guessable; if it's your own invented pairing, it's not.

A real technical risk with "word-for-word exact":

Hashing is unforgiving — a single space, capital letter, line break, or punctuation mark produces a completely different hash, with zero partial credit. This creates two real dangers:

Legitimate lockout risk: if you write the poem with a certain line-break style, then years later your beneficiary types it back with slightly different spacing/punctuation (very easy to do from memory), the claim silently fails — with no way to know why, since hashes don't give partial-match feedback.
Kanji-specific risk: as discussed, the same-looking kanji can sometimes be encoded differently at the byte level depending on input method — Unicode normalization (NFC) is non-negotiable here, or the "correct" phrase could produce a different hash depending on which keyboard/IME typed it.
What I'd recommend building alongside this:

Enforce NFC normalization on both phrases automatically, so encoding quirks don't matter.
Trim leading/trailing whitespace automatically, but preserve internal formatting exactly (so line breaks in the poem still count, deliberately, as part of the entropy).
Give the owner a verification step at setup — re-type both phrases immediately after creating the vault, confirm it derives the same hash, so any accidental copy/paste or formatting mismatch is caught immediately, not years later when it's too late to fix.
Store (off-chain, for the owner only, never on-chain) an explicit exact-format reference — e.g. "the poem must be typed exactly as written here, including line breaks" — so a future beneficiary isn't guessing at formatting.
One more thing worth being explicit about, since it's easy to conflate: this design change (two long original phrases) solves the brute-force/entropy problem well. It does not by itself solve the front-running problem from earlier — those are still separate risks, and you'd still want the phrase-derived-signature approach on top of this for the front-running piece. Want me to combine both into one architecture — two independent high-entropy phrases, combined into a single derived key, submitted only as a signature?

It mustn't be a poem you know. Welk wother way , we olve the bruteforce, at least we achieved something, what are the front running problem?

Fair — let's lock in that brute-force is now well-handled (two independent, high-entropy, self-composed secrets), and recap the front-running problem cleanly since it's a separate issue.

The front-running problem, in one line: even if nobody could ever guess your phrases, the moment you use the correct ones to claim your vault, that correct data becomes visible to everyone watching the network before your transaction is confirmed — and someone can copy it and pay more gas to get their copy processed first, stealing your rightful claim.

Why this happens (recap of the mechanics):

You type your correct phrases into the frontend and submit a claim transaction.
Before it's confirmed, your transaction sits in the public mempool — a waiting room every node can see.
Bots constantly scan the mempool for exactly this pattern: a transaction containing a valid secret/proof about to unlock value.
A bot copies your transaction's data, submits its own transaction with a higher gas fee.
Validators pick transactions by gas fee, not by who submitted first — so the bot's copy gets processed before yours.
The vault sees a "valid" claim arrive from the bot's address, and pays out to them, not you — even though you're the one who actually knew the real secret.
Why brute-force strength doesn't help against this: this attack doesn't require guessing anything — the attacker isn't trying to find your phrases, they're watching for the moment you (the legitimate owner) reveal them, then stealing the reveal itself. It's not a weakness in your secret; it's a weakness in how the secret gets checked — sending the raw phrase (or a value derived directly from it) as plain, copyable data.

Why the earlier fix still applies here specifically: a signature — where the claimant signs a message that includes their own wallet address — closes this gap, because a copied signature only proves the original signer's identity, not the copier's. Even if a bot sees and copies it instantly, submitting it from their own address makes the check fail, since the signature doesn't match who's calling.

So: brute-force = "can someone figure out the secret without seeing it." Front-running = "can someone steal a legitimate reveal after seeing it, even without knowing the secret themselves." Two different attack surfaces, two different fixes — you've now got a real answer for the first; the phrase-derived-signature approach is the fix for the second. Want to combine them into one build now?

I have s question when you generate s provate key with phrase, is the private key something you can import and send yokens to ?

Yes — any valid 256-bit value can be imported into MetaMask or any wallet ("Import Account" → paste private key), and once imported, that wallet can receive, hold, and send tokens completely normally, indistinguishable from any other wallet.

This is worth sitting with for a second, because it directly affects your design:

The derived key is a real, fully-functional wallet — not a sandboxed "signing-only" object. There's no way to create a private key that can only sign messages but can't hold funds — that restriction doesn't exist at the cryptographic level. Anyone who knows your two phrases can import the resulting key into their own MetaMask and have complete, full control of that address — sign anything, spend anything sent to it, everything.

Why this matters for your design specifically:

If you're using it purely for signing a claim message (the front-running fix), this is fine — you're intentionally exploiting the fact that it's a real key, just choosing not to put value in it directly.
If you're using it for the "backup key that's pre-approved to drain my real wallet" idea from earlier, this is exactly the mechanism that makes that work — but it also means anyone with the phrases has that same drain power, instantly, forever, until revoked. No difference between "you" using it and "an attacker who guessed it" using it — the key doesn't know who's holding it.
Practical implication worth flagging: since it's a real address, it can also accidentally receive funds — if someone sends tokens to that address by mistake (or you do, testing), those funds are only as safe as your phrases are. So this address should never be treated as "just for signing, nothing to worry about" — it should be treated with the same care as any real wallet holding real value, because functionally, it is one.

What i want is that, the sddress associated with that out generated key is the obly one given veyo power to transfer the sssets, its almost like the legacy vault, it can chose to withdraw the assets to its wallet address or external

Good — that's a coherent design, and it's actually just a cleaner restatement of what you already had with "backup key with approve()." Let me confirm what this actually looks like mechanically, and flag the one real decision point still open.

What you're describing, precisely:

Owner's real wallet does approve(derivedAddress, amount) (or setApprovalForAll for NFTs) — granting the phrase-derived address permission to move these specific assets. Owner's real wallet still holds the assets the whole time; nothing moves yet.
Later — whenever the owner wants, or in an emergency, or after inactivity, whatever trigger you choose — someone regenerates the private key from the two phrases, and that address calls transferFrom(ownerRealWallet, destination, amount).
The destination can be anything the caller specifies at that moment — the derived address itself, or any other external wallet — since transferFrom's destination parameter is just an argument, not something fixed at approval time.
This gives you exactly the flexibility you described: the derived key has "veto power" (it's the only address with approval to move things), and it decides where the assets land at the moment of the call, not in advance.

The one real decision left — what triggers this, since you're moving away from DMH's inactivity-timer model:

No gate at all — derived address can call transferFrom any time, immediately, forever, once approved. This is the purest "I lost my main wallet, use my backup key whenever" version, but it means there's zero protection if the phrases leak (whoever has them can drain instantly, no waiting period, no fee escalation, no cooldown — none of DMH's original friction applies here, since you're using raw ERC-20 approve, not a custom vault contract).
Time/inactivity gated — you write a small custom contract (not raw approve) that only allows the derived address to call transferFrom-equivalent logic after an inactivity period, closer to DMH's original design, but now using signature-based claiming instead of plaintext-based. This reintroduces exactly the fee-escalation/cooldown protections DMH already had, while fixing the front-running and plaintext-leak problems we found.
Given everything we've established this conversation — front-running risk, no rate-limiting on raw approvals, weak-secret risk if the two phrases ever did leak somehow (rare, but "rare" isn't "impossible," per the earlier attemptUnlock even correct guesses matter) — the gated version is meaningfully safer for basically the same amount of extra contract code, and keeps you consistent with DMH's own design philosophy of adding friction against a single point of failure.

Which one do you actually want to build — the always-live backup key (simpler, less protected), or the inactivity-gated version (more protected, closer to DMH's existing safety model)?

It should be time inactivity gated, wo with this have we solved the problem, or are there still bugs that can introduce and observer manipulation?

Good progress — but no, this doesn't close every gap automatically. Combining time-gate + signature-based claiming solves the two big problems we identified (plaintext leak, front-running theft), but there are a few implementation-level details that, if missed, reopen new cracks. Let me be specific rather than just say "get it audited."

What's now genuinely solved:

✅ Plaintext never touches the chain (only a signature does).
✅ Copying a signature doesn't let an attacker steal it — a signature only proves the registered address signed it, and if properly bound (see below), the funds still go where the legitimate signer intended.
✅ Brute-force is now protected by high-entropy, self-composed phrases.
New things that must be done correctly, or the fix doesn't actually hold:

The destination must be baked into the signed message, not passed separately. If someone signs "I authorize a claim" but the destination wallet is a separate parameter chosen at call time, an attacker could take a legitimately-broadcast signature and resubmit it with a different destination pointing to themselves — the signature would still "verify" (it proves the right signer authorized something), but the funds could get redirected. Fix: the signed message itself must include the exact destination address, e.g. keccak256(vaultId, destinationAddress, nonce).
A nonce or expiry is required, or the same valid signature could be replayed later (e.g., resubmitted after a first successful claim already happened, or reused if you ever add multiple vaults under the same derived key).
ping() must stay restricted to the real owner's wallet only. If anyone could call it, an attacker (or bug) could interfere with the inactivity clock. This should already be true in DMH, but worth explicitly re-verifying in the new version.
A subtle griefing vector, not present before, worth naming: since wrong attempts trigger cooldown/fee-escalation for anyone, an attacker who has no chance of guessing correctly could still spam garbage signatures the instant the vault becomes claimable, deliberately triggering cooldowns to delay the legitimate claimant at exactly the moment they want to act. This doesn't let the attacker steal anything, but it's a real, known category of annoyance/denial-of-service risk that existed in the original design too — worth deciding if it matters for your threat model (probably lower priority than the first three, but worth documenting).
Bottom line: the concept is now sound and closes the major risks you've been probing. But "sound concept" ≠ "bug-free implementation" — signature schemes are notoriously easy to get subtly wrong (missing exactly one of the bindings above is a classic, real-world smart contract bug pattern, not a hypothetical). This is exactly the kind of thing that needs careful contract-level testing (deliberately trying to break your own binding logic) before treating it as done, same honesty standard as the ZK circuit caveat earlier.

Want me to actually write the Solidity + signing code now, with all four of these bound in correctly from the start?

So what do tou suggest as logical right for this to be full proof, also i dont think we have settled. The two ophrases wilk generate two pkeys or 1?

Good catch — that's genuinely undecided, and the two options behave very differently. Let me lay them out precisely, since this is a real fork in the design, not a detail.

Option A: One key, derived from both phrases combined
javascript
const combined = phraseA.normalize("NFC") + "||" + phraseB.normalize("NFC");
const privateKey = pbkdf2(toUtf8Bytes(combined), salt, iterations, 32, "sha256");
Produces one private key, one address, registered on-chain.
To claim, you must supply both phrases correctly together — get either one wrong, and you derive a completely different (wrong) key, and the signature check fails outright.
Simpler contract logic — just one signature to verify, one address to check.
Downside: it's not really "two separate factors" in the security sense — it behaves like one long combined secret. This is fine and strong, but conceptually it's "one really long password split into two chunks for memorability," not true multi-factor.
Option B: Two separate keys, two separate signatures (real multi-sig)
javascript
const privateKeyA = pbkdf2(toUtf8Bytes(phraseA), saltA, ...);
const privateKeyB = pbkdf2(toUtf8Bytes(phraseB), saltB, ...);
// two different addresses, both registered on-chain
Produces two independent keys/addresses.
The contract requires both signatures, from both specific registered addresses, before releasing funds.
This is genuine 2-of-2 multi-sig — the actual cryptographic pattern real multi-sig wallets (like Gnosis Safe) use.
Meaningful advantage: if the two phrases are stored/known in genuinely separate contexts (e.g., you know phrase A, a trusted person holds phrase B on paper somewhere), compromising one doesn't help an attacker at all — they need both, from potentially two different real-world sources. This is real risk diversification, not just "a longer combined string."
Slightly more contract complexity (verify two ecrecover results instead of one), but this is a well-trodden pattern, not exotic.
My recommendation: Option B
Given everything you've described — wanting genuine security margin, not just length — Option B is the mathematically stronger choice, because it's actual multi-party authorization, not a single very-long secret pretending to be two. Option A is fine if both phrases will always be known only by you anyway (in which case there's no real diversification benefit, and Option A is simpler) — but if there's ever a chance the second phrase lives somewhere else (a trusted person, a safe, a separate device), Option B is the one that actually protects you if one half leaks.

Foolproof logical design (combining everything from this conversation)
Owner derives two keys from two independent, self-composed, high-entropy phrases (Option B).
Both public addresses registered on-chain at vault setup — never the phrases, never the keys.
Owner's real wallet retains custody; only grants approve()/allowance to the vault contract itself (not directly to the derived addresses) — the contract is the only thing allowed to move funds, and only after its own rules are satisfied.
Contract enforces the inactivity timer, same as DMH's original design.
To claim: claimant submits two signatures (from both derived addresses), each signing a message that includes keccak256(vaultId, destinationAddress, nonce) — binding destination and preventing replay.
Contract verifies both ecrecover results match the two registered addresses, checks the inactivity condition, then calls transferFrom(owner, destination, amount) itself.
Keep DMH's existing fee-escalation/cooldown on wrong signature attempts, to blunt spam/griefing.
This closes brute-force (high-entropy, independent phrases), front-running (signatures bound to destination+nonce, unreusable), and custody risk (contract holds the allowance-gate, not the derived keys directly) — while staying inactivity-gated, consistent with DMH's core "chain as witness" philosophy.

Want me to start writing this contract now?

So we have solved this?

Design-wise, yes — you've now got a coherent, sound architecture that addresses every real problem we surfaced. But "solved" needs one honest qualifier: solved on paper, not yet solved in code. Let's be precise about the difference, since that gap is exactly where things go wrong in practice.

What's genuinely resolved at the design level:

✅ Brute-force — two independent, high-entropy, self-composed phrases.
✅ Plaintext leak — nothing but signatures ever touches the chain.
✅ Front-running/theft — signatures bound to destination + nonce, unreusable.
✅ Single point of failure — real 2-of-2 multi-sig, not one long secret split in half.
✅ Custody model — funds never leave the owner's real wallet until the contract itself executes a verified transfer.
✅ Consistent with DMH's existing inactivity-gate and fee/cooldown friction.
What's not yet solved, because it doesn't exist yet:

No code has been written. A correct design can still have an incorrect implementation — a missing nonce check, a wrong byte encoding in the signed message, an off-by-one in how ecrecover output is compared — any of these would quietly reopen a hole in an otherwise sound design. This is the same caveat I gave for the ZK circuit earlier, and it applies here too, just with a smaller, more battle-tested risk surface (ECDSA/ecrecover vs. a custom circuit).
No testing yet — including deliberately trying to break your own binding logic (wrong destination, replayed signature, mismatched nonce) before trusting it.
Real-world key derivation from long multilingual phrases + Unicode normalization still needs to be implemented and tested across devices/keyboards, not just designed in theory.
The honest framing, matching your own "don't overclaim what AI verification can do" instinct from earlier: you've done the hard, valuable part — identifying the actual threat model and designing a fix for each real threat, not just patching symptoms. That's genuinely rare and good work for a hackathon submission. What's left is the normal engineering step every serious project goes through: build it, test it against adversarial inputs, and treat it as "reviewed design, unaudited implementation" in your submission notes — which is a completely legitimate, honest thing to ship.

Want me to start writing the actual Solidity contract and the key-derivation/signing frontend module now, so you have real code to test against everything we just walked through?

So before the co tract building should we give the user an option of choosing a one phrase  or two phrase for double security, or should we enforce double phrase also lsyout th interactions pattern and variations.

Good question to settle before writing code — this is a real UX/security tradeoff, not just a preference toggle. Let me lay out the options and the actual consequences of each, then propose an interaction flow.

Should it be optional or enforced?
Argument for making it optional (let user choose 1 or 2):

Lower friction for users who just want basic protection and understand the tradeoff.
More flexible — some assets are low-value and don't need max security.
Argument for enforcing 2-phrase (my actual recommendation):

The entire value of Option B (independent multi-sig) evaporates if it's optional and most users pick the "easy" 1-phrase path — which they will, since humans reliably choose convenience over security when given the choice (this is extremely well-documented UX behavior, not a guess).
A vault holding real, possibly life-savings-level assets is exactly the wrong place to let users self-select into weaker security by default.
If you make it optional, you now have to build, test, and maintain two separate claim code paths (single-sig and multi-sig verification) — doubling your attack surface and testing burden right before a hackathon deadline, for a feature whose main purpose (safety) is undermined by offering the weak path at all.
My recommendation: enforce 2-phrase, but reframe it in the UI as strength, not burden — e.g., "Vault requires two independent secrets so no single point of failure can compromise your inheritance." This is also a stronger hackathon narrative than "we let you pick," since judges tend to reward opinionated, safety-first design decisions that show you understood the actual risk, not just built a feature toggle.

Proposed interaction pattern (setup flow)
Intro/education screen — briefly explain why two phrases exist (one sentence: "prevents a single leaked secret from draining your vault") before asking for input. Users who understand why are less likely to pick weak phrases or store both together carelessly.
Phrase A entry — free-form text area (not a single-line input, since you're allowing poem-length text), with:
A live entropy/strength indicator (not just "length," but flag common patterns if feasible).
Explicit inline warning against personal info, based on your earlier concern (pet names, birthdays).
NFC normalization applied silently in the background.
Phrase A confirmation — re-type it, immediately, to catch typos/formatting drift before it's locked in (critical, since a single missing line break makes it unrecoverable later).
Phrase B entry + confirmation — same pattern, but explicitly prompt: "Store this one somewhere different from Phrase A — with a trusted person, in a separate physical location, etc." Reinforce that the security benefit depends on the two being kept apart.
Derivation + on-chain registration — both derived addresses computed locally, only addresses submitted on-chain, standard setup flow otherwise (inactivity period, asset selection, approval — same as current DMH wizard).
Final review screen — explicitly restate: "Both phrases are required together to claim. Losing either one permanently locks the vault. There is no recovery mechanism if both are lost." — set correct expectations before the point of no return.
Proposed interaction pattern (claim flow)
Claimant looks up vault by owner address (unchanged from current design).
Enter Phrase A → frontend derives Key A locally → signs the claim message (which includes destination + nonce) → holds signature in memory (not yet submitted).
Enter Phrase B → same process for Key B.
Choose destination address — explicitly ask "where should assets be sent?" (defaults to connected wallet, but allow override, matching your "or external" requirement).
Single on-chain submission — both signatures + destination + nonce sent together in one attemptUnlock-equivalent call, so there's only one transaction, one gas fee, one point where the fee-escalation/cooldown logic applies if it fails.
Result screen — success (assets moved) or failure (which signature was wrong, if you choose to reveal that — though revealing which one failed could actually help an attacker narrow down their brute-force target, so consider only saying "claim failed" generically, not which phrase was incorrect).
That last point is a real design decision worth flagging explicitly: do you want the UI to say "Phrase A was correct, Phrase B was wrong," or just "claim failed"? The specific version leaks information to a would-be attacker running trial-and-error; the generic version protects that but is a worse UX for a genuine owner debugging their own mistake. Want me to think through that tradeoff further, or move on to writing the actual contract now?

How about the claim fee

Good — this needs updating too, since the original fee logic was built around a single guess/single failure, and now you have two independent signatures that could each be right or wrong. A few real decisions here.

What changes, mechanically
The original design: one secretPlaintext guess → right or wrong → fee doubles on wrong. Now: two signatures submitted together → four possible outcomes per attempt:

Sig A	Sig B	Outcome
✅ correct	✅ correct	Claim succeeds
✅ correct	❌ wrong	Claim fails
❌ wrong	✅ correct	Claim fails
❌ wrong	❌ wrong	Claim fails
Since it's all-or-nothing (both signatures checked in the same transaction, same as before), the contract can still just treat it as a binary "success/fail" for fee purposes — you don't need new fee tiers for "half right." Keep it simple: any failure, regardless of which signature caused it, is one failed attempt — same escalation logic as DMH's current design (failedAttempts++, fee doubles, cooldown starts).

The one real new decision: should fee scale with how "close" someone got?
No — resist this idea if it comes up, even though it might feel intuitive. If the fee or response differed based on "1 of 2 correct" vs. "0 of 2 correct," that's a side-channel that leaks information — an attacker could use it to brute-force each phrase independently, one at a time, completely undermining the whole point of needing both together. This is a classic real-world vulnerability pattern (timing/response-based oracle attacks) — the fix is to make the contract's behavior on failure identical regardless of which or how many signatures were wrong. Same fee increase, same generic "claim failed" message, same cooldown, no matter what.

Should the fee itself change in size or structure?
A few practical considerations specific to this new design:

Gas cost is now higher per attempt — verifying two ecrecover calls instead of one costs more gas than before. Your baseFee (currently 1 USDT flat) may want a slight bump to stay proportionate, though this is a minor tuning knob, not a security-critical decision.
Escalation cap (maxEscalationDoublings) still matters, arguably more now — since offline brute-force is already the harder problem (mitigated by phrase entropy, not fees), the on-chain fee escalation's real job is just spam/griefing deterrence (the scenario from earlier — someone deliberately triggering cooldowns to block the legitimate claimant). Keep the existing cap-and-cooldown pattern; no need to redesign it, just confirm it still applies uniformly regardless of which signature(s) failed.
Cooldown duration — unchanged logic-wise, but worth deciding if you want it longer now, since a malicious actor blocking the real claimant is arguably a bigger relative concern once you've already hardened brute-force and front-running — cooldown becomes your main remaining lever against griefing.
Bottom line: keep the fee/cooldown mechanism exactly as binary as it already is (success/fail, not graduated) — the only change needed is making sure failure is treated identically regardless of which signature broke, so you don't accidentally open a new information-leak side channel while fixing the old ones.

So what tokens coukd be withdraawed, seems not native tokens can be withdrawn right ?

Correct — this is actually a fundamental limitation, not a bug you can code around, and it's worth understanding exactly why.

Why native BOT can't use this model:

approve() and transferFrom() are functions defined by the ERC-20 token standard — they only exist because a token contract chooses to implement them. BOT Chain's native token (BOT, used for gas) isn't a smart contract at all — it's baked into the protocol itself, tracked directly by the chain's core ledger, the same way ETH works on Ethereum. There's no approve() function to call on "native BOT," because there's no contract there to call it on.

So what actually happens with native tokens in a non-custodial vault design?

You have two real options:

1. Exclude native BOT entirely (simplest, matches DMH's current honest-limitations approach)
Just don't support it — restrict the vault to ERC-20/ERC-721 assets only, and clearly document that native BOT isn't covered, the same way DMH's doc already transparently lists known limitations (like non-enumerable NFT collections being skipped). This is a legitimate, honest scope decision, not a failure.

2. Require wrapping native BOT into a token first (WBOT-style, like WETH on Ethereum)
A wrapped token is a smart contract that holds real native BOT 1:1 and issues you an equivalent ERC-20 token in return (deposit BOT → receive WBOT; redeem WBOT → get BOT back anytime). Once it's WBOT, it's a normal ERC-20 — approve()/transferFrom() work exactly like any other token, and your vault design covers it just fine.

This is exactly how Ethereum inheritance/vault tools handle ETH — they don't touch raw ETH, they require WETH.
Practical catch: this needs BOT Chain to actually have a canonical WBOT contract already deployed (check the ecosystem/bridge pages, or their token list) — you shouldn't deploy your own ad-hoc wrapper for a hackathon, since a custom, unaudited wrapping contract holding real value is a much bigger risk than the vault itself.
My recommendation, given your timeline and DMH's existing philosophy: go with option 1 — explicitly scope native BOT out, same as the existing doc already does for other edge cases ("known limitation," not silently broken). It's the same "honest constrained MVP" instinct you've applied throughout this whole project, and it avoids depending on a wrapping contract you don't control or haven't audited.

How about the ui, what sort of theme will be best i sm slso thinking of pushing the raw solidity sol to git, and creating a python version users can use on terminal cli

Two different questions — UI theme and the Python CLI idea both deserve real thought given what this project actually needs to convey. Let me take them separately.

UI theme
Given the sensitivity of what this app does — this isn't a game or a trading tool, it's literally "what happens to my assets when I'm gone or lose access" — the visual language should communicate trust, permanence, and calm competence, not crypto hype. This aligns closely with the muted charcoal/desaturated green aesthetic you've already used consistently across DevicePassport, Legacy Vault, and InvoiceFactory — I'd keep that exact palette here rather than introducing something new, partly for consistency across your hackathon portfolio (a judge seeing all four projects share a visual identity reads as intentional, professional branding, not four disconnected experiments).

Specific direction worth leaning into for this particular project:

Typography-led, not icon-led. Given the whole product is about phrases (poems, kanji, secrets), give real weight to how text is displayed — a serif or literary-feeling monospace for the phrase-entry fields specifically (contrasting with a clean sans-serif for the rest of the UI) can subtly reinforce "this is a meaningful, personal artifact," not just a password field.
Avoid alarming red for the failure/lockout states. Given this app can permanently lock someone out of an inheritance, a harsh red "ERROR" treatment feels punitive at an already-stressful moment (someone claiming a deceased relative's assets). Consider a muted amber/warm gray for warnings instead, reserving your accent green only for confirmed successes.
The "two phrases, kept apart" concept is a genuine UI storytelling opportunity — a simple visual metaphor (two halves of a seal, two keys, two paths converging) at the setup step could make the security model feel intuitive rather than just being explained in a paragraph of text.
The raw .sol on GitHub — good idea, standard practice
Publishing your Solidity source publicly is normal and expected in this space (verified contracts are already fully readable on-chain anyway, as we discussed). A few things worth including if you do this:

Clear README stating current audit status honestly (matches your doc's existing "honest status report" tone) — e.g., "reviewed design, unaudited implementation" per what we discussed.
A SECURITY.md noting the known limitations (native token exclusion, etc.) so it doesn't look like oversights.
The Python CLI — worth pausing on this one
This is a bigger scope decision than it might first appear. A few honest things to weigh:

Genuine value: a CLI is a real, meaningful trust signal for a security-conscious inheritance tool — advanced users often prefer not to trust a browser/frontend with their phrases at all, and a local, auditable, no-network-dependency script for key derivation specifically (not necessarily the whole app) is a legitimate, differentiated feature.
Real risk: maintaining two separate implementations of the same cryptographic logic (JS frontend + Python CLI) means two places bugs can diverge — if your JS derivation and Python derivation ever produce different results for the same phrase due to a subtle library difference (e.g., different default text encoding, different KDF parameter defaults between libraries), a user could set up on one and be unable to claim on the other. This is a real, documented category of cross-implementation bug, not a hypothetical.
Given hackathon timeline pressure: I'd scope the Python tool narrowly — just the key-derivation-and-signing step, not a full reimplementation of the claim flow — and treat it explicitly as "for advanced users to independently verify/derive their keys offline," not as a required or parallel path. Ship the frontend as the primary product; the CLI as a bonus utility with a clear disclaimer that it must be tested against the same test vectors as the JS version before being trusted.
Want me to start with the contract code first, then come back to the frontend theme and CLI once the core logic is settled — since everything downstream depends on the contract interface being locked in?

UI theme
Given what this app actually does — deciding what happens to someone's assets when they're gone or unreachable — the visual language should read as trust, permanence, and calm competence, not crypto hype. That points straight back to the muted charcoal/desaturated green palette you've already used across DevicePassport, Legacy Vault, and InvoiceFactory. I'd keep it consistent here rather than introducing something new — a judge seeing all four projects share a visual identity reads as intentional branding, not four disconnected builds.

A few specifics worth leaning into for this particular project:

Typography-led phrase fields. Since the whole product revolves around phrases (poems, kanji), give the phrase-entry inputs real typographic weight — a distinct serif or literary monospace, contrasting with a clean sans-serif elsewhere — to make them feel like meaningful artifacts, not password boxes.
Avoid harsh red for failure states. A claim can permanently lock someone out of an inheritance — a punitive red "ERROR" at an already stressful moment (someone claiming a deceased relative's assets) feels wrong. Muted amber/warm gray for warnings, green reserved only for confirmed success.
"Two phrases, kept apart" is a real storytelling opportunity — a simple visual metaphor (two halves of a seal, two keys converging) at setup could make the multi-sig concept feel intuitive rather than just explained in a paragraph.
Publishing the .sol to GitHub — good, standard practice
Verified contracts are already fully public on-chain, so this adds no new exposure. Worth including: an honest README stating audit status ("reviewed design, unaudited implementation" — consistent with your doc's existing tone), and a SECURITY.md listing known limitations (native token exclusion, etc.) so gaps read as documented decisions, not oversights.

The Python CLI — worth pausing on
Real value: a local, no-network-dependency key-derivation tool is a genuine trust signal for a security tool like this — advanced users often prefer not to trust a browser with their phrases at all.
Real risk: maintaining two separate implementations of the same crypto logic (JS + Python) means two places for silent divergence — different default text encoding or KDF parameters between libraries could derive a different key from the same phrase, silently locking someone out. This is a documented, real bug class, not hypothetical.
Given your timeline: scope it narrowly — just key derivation + signing, not the full claim flow — and frame it explicitly as an optional verification tool, tested against the same test vectors as the JS version, not a parallel required path.
Want me to start on the contract code now, since the frontend and CLI both depend on that interface being locked first?

Features the contract will have

Here's the consolidated feature list based on everything we've worked through — this can serve as your build spec before writing code.

Core vault mechanics (inherited from DMH v1)
Non-custodial: owner retains asset custody via approve()/setApprovalForAll(); contract never holds assets until claim execution.
Configurable inactivity period (1 min–10 years), ping() heartbeat resets the timer.
Owner can deactivateVault() permanently.
Max 50 registered token entries per vault.
Skip-and-continue token sweep on claim (one bad transfer doesn't revert the whole claim).
Escalating claim fee on failed attempts (doubles, capped at maxEscalationDoublings) + self-expiring cooldown.
Native BOT explicitly out of scope (ERC-20/ERC-721 only) — documented limitation, not a bug.
New: dual-phrase, signature-based claim (v2 redesign)
Two independent secret phrases at setup, each arbitrary length/language (poems, kanji+translation, etc.) — no personal-info phrases (UI warning, not enforced on-chain).
Each phrase → deterministically derives its own private key via a slow KDF (PBKDF2/scrypt, not raw keccak256) — two separate keys, two separate registered addresses (2-of-2 multi-sig, not one combined secret).
NFC Unicode normalization applied to both phrases before derivation, to guarantee cross-device/cross-keyboard consistency.
Setup requires re-entry confirmation of both phrases before locking in (catch formatting/typo drift early).
Only the two public addresses are registered on-chain — phrases and derived keys never leave the browser.
Claim flow
Claimant re-derives both keys locally from the two phrases.
Each key signs a message binding: vaultId + destinationAddress + nonce (prevents replay and destination-redirection attacks).
Claimant chooses destination address at claim time (own wallet or external) — not fixed at setup.
Both signatures + destination + nonce submitted together in one transaction.
Contract verifies both via ecrecover against the two registered addresses.
Uniform failure behavior: any wrong signature (either or both) → identical "claim failed" response, identical fee/cooldown escalation — no side-channel revealing which phrase was wrong.
Security properties this achieves
✅ No plaintext secret ever touches the chain (signatures only).
✅ Brute-force resistant (long, independent, self-composed, high-entropy phrases).
✅ Front-running resistant (signatures bound to destination + nonce; copied signatures are unusable by anyone but the registered signer).
✅ No single point of failure (real 2-of-2 multi-sig, not one secret split in half).
✅ Griefing/spam still deterred via existing fee-escalation + cooldown.
Explicitly out of scope / known limitations (to document, not hide)
Native BOT token withdrawal.
Real-time mobile wallet in-app-browser signing UX untested until deployed.
Contract is "reviewed design, unaudited implementation."
No recovery if both phrases are lost — permanent lockout, no backdoor.
Want me to start writing the Solidity contract against this spec now?

Does it tranfer all the non native evm tokens?

Not automatically "all" — only the tokens that were explicitly registered to that vault during setup, up to the 50-entry cap. It doesn't scan the owner's wallet and sweep everything it finds; it only ever touches what's on the getVaultTokens(vaultId) list.

A few precise clarifications, based on the original spec:

ERC-20: any registered ERC-20 token gets swept via transferFrom, limited to whatever allowance was approved.
ERC-721: registered as a whole collection (via setApprovalForAll), and the contract needs to discover which tokenIds the owner currently holds — this only works cleanly if the collection implements ERC721Enumerable. A registered collection that isn't enumerable gets skipped and logged, not transferred — this was flagged as a known limitation in the original doc, not something the redesign fixes automatically.
ERC-1155 (the "semi-fungible/multi-token" standard, common for game items, editions, etc.) — not mentioned anywhere in the original spec at all. As written, DMH only handles ERC-20 and ERC-721. If a user tries to register an ERC-1155 token, there's currently no code path for it — this is a gap worth deciding on explicitly rather than discovering later.
Native BOT — excluded entirely, as just discussed.
Unregistered tokens — even if the owner holds other tokens in their wallet, if they were never added via addToken(), the vault has no allowance and no knowledge of them; they're never touched, by design (this is actually a safety feature, not a limitation — the owner explicitly opts each asset in).
So the accurate framing for your submission: "transfers all registered ERC-20 and enumerable ERC-721 assets, skip-and-continue on failures — ERC-1155 and non-enumerable NFTs are known, documented exclusions, native BOT is out of scope."

Want me to add ERC-1155 support to the v2 spec now, or keep scope exactly as DMH v1 defined it (ERC-20 + enumerable ERC-721 only) to stay within hackathon timeline?
